Ten out of thirteen pregnancies

caught my mother's womb

at 18 tender years,

And gave her no rest until they took it away
at 39 tired ones, so she could keep working.
I lost,

Nine lives that she survives

in debt, deeper every year,

and in poor health—

make no mistake about that POOR health.

She gave up what could have been an easier life,
the single life,

for a place in Heaven, and one fucker.

That lost single-ness

and the color of her skin

could have cushioned her after a hard childhood.
But she gave up the first,

in fact, saw no choice... She says:
And in her world the second was the Rule, "And Grandpa is old before his time.
she could eat, marry, and live in her town, He's sixty-two and it's like he's eighty. 
and be oblivious to the oppression of others. They won't let him work outside anymore.

She's never realized a lot of her own. He's at a desk....shuffling papers,

and he's miserable, he feels useless.
And he's sick—

He can't even have a beer these days."
What can I say to that painful news?

And she prayed. Grandpa's plight catches my throat,

not out of fear for myself, but him
AND SHE'S STILL PRAYING— and my mother, who's headed that way.

to earn salvation and mercy for her kids and husband, I only mouth a defense of our class,
whom she's condemned countless times. and she doesn't give a shit what I say.
Her older daughters don't believe, really— I realize that she'll defend her life,
and her young children could defect anytime. and fight to change mine.
I keep hoping, and God knows, I'VE TRIED. And she stubbornly plugs on:
"Get a job where you go to work from 9 to 5,
I was her first,
pay your debts, and get some security for the future
and so I'm told, the most trouble. don't kid yourself, things are getting rougher.
He always told me I was the worst, Like be a clerk in a store,
and I hate him, for check-out girls at Eagle's make $3.00 an hour."
So I tell her that carpenter's apprentices start higher,
and that men have all the job security,
even though all men don't.
My bones and bruises are healed. And I live in another town, besides.
I also won the last fight I had with him.
My mother wants me to make it,

But my sister, fourth in line, is catching the shit, now. and still keep the ethics.
And I can't really ease her pain, but I will stay working-class,
just warn her and hope she fights back sometimes, and I won't have to try.

to ward off hope:
Listen to me, mom.
I love you,
but I love myself and our people, too—
and I don't mean the Mother Church,
or racist, sexist, club-wielding men.
You like music, dancing, and slapstick comics,
I do, too.
You want your kids to eat well,
wear adequate clothing

and be clean.

I never understood class by any name,

But I can see where my consciousness came from.
I resisted staying in the Working Class

until they ripped off my last buck,

and now I'm in debt, too,

without even a year's credit,

and certainly without grace.

My sisters haven't been led on,

and will not make my mistake.

So do I.
I am a feminist and a lesbian,
so my mother and I talk about class now. When I was younger
I thought she'd die if she ever found out about
my life and my politics.
and she sometimes makes bitter comments. Well, she's found out enough to tumble the cathedral,
those goddam prayers.
If I had a nickel for every rosary...
She often berates me because she thinks I pay my debts,
with no respect for anything or anybody.
Once I wanted to change my last name
to her first name.
It only embarrassed her. She says my brains
She didn't understand, and I can't explain.
Maybe I just wanted to get back at the old man. It's hard to get things going,

like the revolution.
It's hard enough to survive
without going crazy for good.
It beats me how women without friends make it.
I tell her I want to be a carpenter, in this world.

She matters to me and my name hasn't changed.

or a printer or a mechanic— beats me where the money comes from

and all she can say is: unless it's from the top.
"You're not built for that kind of work. 
You think you're a real athlete? 
You just want a man's job, that's sick.
When you've got some talent and creativity 
you've got no business digging ditches." 
And when I say: 
"That's bullshit, and Grandpa works at Goodyear. If he can, so can I."
I want to.