e ; ' ‘ The show was followed by a women's  
The Iowa City Women's Community had  
been entertaining over a local talent show for the benefit of the Sparky Daycare Center, charging a quarter a head. This was the second annual event with the new added attraction of dancing.  

As the dancing began, there were about a battalion of women dancing until they dropped.  

The fairy jotties (Be sure to follow!) (YEAH!) It was great! Dances are held fairly regularly for all women at 10 S. Gilbert, check the Women's Center for dates and times and  

peers page found so much talent, thanks to 4-year-old Alice, (remember Alice?) And oh, yeah, false starts and an uncoordinated lighting system. I loved every minute of it! The talent show, entitled, by the way, "DORIS DAY MEETS THE HEARTBREAK OF PSORIASIS ON MARS," reaped a grand total of $20.00, (are you listening, folks?)  

the furies  

tespian/feminist monthly  

Collective  
published by the Furies  
4 S.E. Station, Wash.  
vo. ORs z02-S4a-39ab  

Box 1164  
Iowa City, Iowa,  

D.C. 20003  
WEST COAST  

52240 LESBIAN CONFERENCE  
Dance, April 13, 14, & 15  
Lesbian women are invited to talk expression  

Our Art  
Our Music  

Our Politics  
Our Power  

for further information  

SEER NS ae ORES. BEALS :  
Barb McLean = 508 N. Alta Vista  
Sus, etc. INFO ow PZ] Hollywood, California 90036  

Alternative Readers Service wishes to announce that the first issue of  
the Froggie Hollow Gazette, a six-hour tape, is now available for free, to the  
blind, visually handicapped, and functionally illiterate.  

The first issue contains readings from the Liberation News Service, The  
Whe Eargh Catalogue, The Mother Earth News, The Rolling Stone, and several other radical or underground sources.  

Our purpose is two-fold. We are available to read anything the blind or illiterate are hassled with getting through conventional channels. We also hope to become a focus for an embryonic handicapped person's liberation movement.  

We need lots of publicity. The group of people we hope to reach is not presently part of any organization, so we must depend on readers of the underground press to turn their blind friends on to our service. We would appreciate a small continuing spot in your paper. We would be ecstatic with a free subscription and could perhaps work out an exchange.  

Alternative Readers Service  

c/o John Keith  
2034 Cornell Rd.  
Cleveland, Ohio 44106  

(216) 421-7292 or (216) 761-5069  

School got you down?  

Then bring it down. A group called Youth Liberation has a packet of pamphlets (incl. How to Start an Underground Paper and Student and Youth Organizing Manual), buttons, and 5 sample high school underground papers. All for only $2. Write to Youth Liberation, 2007 Washtenaw Ave., Ann Arbor, Michigan 48104.  

wenie eon CO AINT CL A WOMAN? OOD vec OE Nos Bed