funding & regulations

they will reimburse you for all of it - up to 3 meals and 3 snacks a day if you're open, say, 18 to 24 hours. So, you need at least a temporary license.

Are there any additional licensing requirements?

Yeah - another thing you have to do to get a license is have everybody who works at the center fill out a health form verifying a physical examination. The children have to have them, too. They really just want the forms sent in.

Also fire regulations - the fire marshal has to come out and inspect the building. The board of health has to inspect it too.

So after you shell out all the bucks and get an approval you send them into the daycare branch of the State Social Services. Meanwhile the regional daycare consultant is coming around to your center every now and then to look it over and report back to the state about whether or not you should be licensed. The consultant here, Pat Huxol, was the one who "recommended" that the centers were not "operating legally" because of the two-year olds. I think it was partly her responsibility that that hassle came down in the first place -- but in a lot of ways she tried to help us. She pointed out different places and ways to get things and money that we needed. She told us about Operation Mainstream and the Neighborhood Youth Corps. Those are different federal gov't projects providing jobs for low-income people of different ages. People eligible for the different projects can be employed in different community things, like daycare, and get their salary paid by the gov't. So, if you need the help, you can get staff people for the center. We've had people get those kinds of jobs doing the hot lunch program work. I think those things should be ripped off as much as possible. Those jobs should be falsified and the people should be getting the money -- regardless of what kind of work (if any) that they're actually doing.

Where do requirements for licensing come from?

The federal gov't sets up a 17 page booklet of requirements for daycare centers and the state expounds on it and makes it a little tighter. The federal ones are pretty vague and are used as an outline by the state. One of the newest ones is "parental involvement," and they require that the parents be involved in the daycare center -- this is the hip thing of the year. There are all kinds of spacial requirements, etc. too. Like the federal standard will say "adequate indoor and outdoor space for children appropriate to their ages - with separate rooms or areas for cooking, toilets and other purposes ... floors and walls that can be fully cleaned, etc." And the state takes them and makes real picky specifications in about square feet per child, etc. So, if you meet state standards you meet federal ones.

Who administers hot lunch programs?

Hot lunch projects come under the State Department of Public Instruction. Information can be gotten from them. Over that is the Federal Dept. of Agriculture -- and that's where the money comes from. It's matched 75% from Agriculture and 25% from the State Dept. Hot lunch doesn't have to be administered for every particular child. The center has to meet licensing standards, etc. They want to know the economic background of all the people in the center. We can be pretty up front about it since we're trying to serve low income people -- but some of the centers have university people like students and professors and they still get hot lunch money.

How do you get matching funds for donations?

This is for within the state. Say if the Student Senate from the University gives us money they have to set up an ongoing contract with the county board of supervisors and it's just a lot of red tape. Another way to get money is if any ADC parents are in the center and are employed or go to school, especially women on the WIN Program, they can get $75 a month to pay for childcare -- but it's a lot more hassle and shit work for the women on ADC.

What is the WIN Program?

Work Incentive Program for women on welfare to go to school and get a job to get off welfare. I think it's best for women on welfare to just get that daycare money for themselves.

Anything else on licensing?

Yes -- you have to get incorporated. It's a legal thing that any lawyer can tell you how to do and it costs about $20. It just involves a bunch of bullshit -- you have to write out by-laws and articles of incorporation.

Some of the new proposals for standards require at least 6 staff members -- "the nursery's childcare staff and teachers shall have a knowledge of child development and behavior and have the ability to give the children a feeling of security and comfort under the supervision of the executive or operator, be responsible for the guidance and direct childcare." We just got forms at the new daycare center for the workers to fill out. They're part medical and part of them are for the volunteer's work experience with children (and just work experience.) I think that's how they're trying to decide if people are "qualified" and have that "knowledge" of child development. Each center is supposed to keep all kinds of forms on all the kids and workers there on file at all times. "Personal Records for the nursery staff will be complete, including medical reports.. No administrative professional or childcare staff member shall be under the age of 16 or over the age of 70." I imagine that the licensing standards vary from state to state.

What we've been trying to do is meet the requirements that we can without too much hassle, and shying on the ones that are too much hassle or cost too much to meet. So far we've kept temporary licenses by doing that. I don't know how long that'll last.

children’s liberation

I think children get fucked over a whole lot and they need help. They need to figure out for themselves what to do and sometimes they don't know what to do. I have my feelings hurt a lot. I think it's fair but think about other people except yourself and people should think kids do have feelings also. I think that maybe some people think that this letter or what do you want to call it is different but I'm just telling people what I think is going on.

Like adults have people to talk to. Children have to ask. People probably think this isn't the heaviest thing that I've ever wrote but somebody had to tell people what it is about and it's hard keeping it inside. I think it had to come out and people probably think that kids don't like thinking that adults have more power and they can make you leave the room and do other stuff that children don't like to do and that's what I think about stuff going on.