from AIAW

Since we put out The Childcare Issue in February we've been
through a lot of changes. The situation regarding childcare has
changed considerably here and the childcare issue had repercussions
in this town that were threatening to people's safety and security.
We hope that in the next issue there will be more about childcare
and that we can deal with some of the changes this community has
been through.

This issue was originally to be one on violence and women. It
really isn't. After the childcare issue we were hesitant to put
out an issue solely about violence -- afraid of the repercussions
it could have for women in this town. We also received Jane Alpert's
article and felt that it and the responses to it warranted the space
it would take since anyone underground is so limited from normal
means of communication.

In between putting out the childcare issue and this issue, we
sent copies of a women's poetry anthology to our subscribers.
The anthology was published by a group of gay women and includes
poems read at the first and second All Women's Poetry Readings in

frame are

April 23, 1973
Dear Sisters,

I really enjoyed your childcare issue...
and found it somewhat fascinating that
nothing else could get done due to all of
the struggles over who's going to take
care of the children. I've had fantasies
myself of interrupting any and all meetings
in my area with mobs of children so that
nothing could get done until "who's going
to take care of the children" got dealt
with a little better. However, I no longer
(at this moment) feel quite like that is
the best approach for (where I live).

I'm getting off the track.

Here are some of my thoughts

ON CHILDCARE
What do we mean when we say as mothers
that we need help with caring for the
children? And I tell a two-year-old who is
visiting our house with his mother "no,
you can't have that jar full of peanuts"

Iowa City. The same group of women have started a women's press.
We're excited about both the book and the press. If you didn't
get the anthology and would like one they are $1. The next issue
of AIAW we expect to print ourselves on the press. So it may take
some time but should be out this summer.

and take out a few to give to him...and
his mother rushes from the hall to his de-
fense and she takes over administering
what he can and can't have...not able to
trust that anybody but she can truly be
properly concerned for her child's welfare.

And why is it that when some children
are left with other people they totally
freak out and cry constantly. I don't
think that it is natural for babies to be
so attached to their mothers and I feel
that we (as mothers) are at least as re-
sponsible as other people that children
aren't more able to be raised collectively.
..actually I'm not trying to place blame...
but too often there is a cry by mothers
that nobody else sees what needs to be done
in order to care for their baby/child prop-
erly...there is a presumption by everyone
(including the mother) that mother knows
best and although she's found out everything
that she knows about what affects her child
(ie why she/he won't eat; why she/he's cry-
ing; etc) has been through trial and error...
still other people aren't allowed that same
process and instead if mother is around she
unconsciously acts as the all-knowing re-
garding "her" child.

It is hard to fight the privatization of
children. But first we are recognizing that
they are privatized...and then we are

struggling with changing that. I hope that
in your future issues you will have more
on "who takes care of the children."

I live in a flat with four adults and
three children. There are often as many as
six neighborhood children. And we have a
couple of overnight switching so that who

Subscribers
Amt | A Woman?

| 4 subs $5.00

Institutional sub $20.00
Multiple Volumes #!

too $0
isco D

individual
subscriptions Lh.

now talk to g and how many ee sy changing.
adi oekiat 351-4582 [PY vom soe
at women and children

AIAW? is on file...
ahha: ant is available now

Upsala City microfilm through:

zso Cue st Bell tonal
cole p “Drawer

= vent Wooster, Ohio

AIN'T I A WOMAN? IS A PUBLIC
ATION REFLECTING ONLY
THE OPINION AND STRUGGLE OF
RADICAL GAY WOMEN - NOT THE
COMMUNITY IN IOWA CITY.

A SMALL COLLECTIVE OF
HOLE GAY/WOMEN'S COMMUNITY

WOMEN’S LIBERATION CENTER
4634 Chester Avenue
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19143
215-947-1717

There are two new services for gay women
in the Philadelphia area:

THE NEWSPAPER/MAGAZINE
FOR SINGLE MOTHERS

Designed to recognize the unique
needs of divorced, widowed,
separated and never been married
mothers who are raising children
alone, MOMMA is relevant for all
women, children and men interested
in new family forms, children’s
welfare and liberation, work,

social legislation and daily problems.
The single mother experience is
unfolding, the blossom is MOMMA

feminist newspaper

lain |

("MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO") Published monthly. LESBIAN HOTLINE - listening and info service
De re: Her-self, 225 E. Liberty Name. pares | Se ee personal subscription: 6-$2.50, 12-$5, service for women; Hrs. 6pm-2am, Sat-Tues.
: Ann Arbor, Mich. 48108 1 24-$9, 36-$12 tel. 215-947-2001

Enclosed is Pumas eS ere es institutional subscription: 12-$9
| ( '$4 REGULAR 1-YEAR SUB a - 24-$15, 36-$20
( ‘$10 INSTITUTION OR tye At ate = ips aoe ; ; a alking; women encouraging
' BUSINESS SUB School I I’m interested in MOMMA Organization records & refreshments; Sat nights at
; ( \256 SAMPLE COPY = = -%©nool____— pe ee Eo | Ravine 8 pm, Women's Center

independent
I pepe eee herself eminit a Address
Li 2s ratnon subscription A ARES DRRR worth Pf ae
a BU

Vol 3 No 4 AINT #