about daycare licensing,

What's the set-up for federal and state funding of daycare centers?

The Office of Economic Opportunity and the Bureau of Health, Edu-
cation and Welfare both have funds which can be used for daycare
but there's endless amounts of requirements that have to be met for
centers to qualify. Both of these federal agencies work together
as far as daycare is concerned. They both allot so much money to
each state annually for daycare but the state can't use that money
unless it can come up with "matching funds".

What are "matching funds"?

The federal government won't directly pick up the total bill for any-
thing, so it filters its money through the state. If the state
wants to use it, it has to come up with a percentage of the cost - then the
federal money - as 3/4 of the amount can be gotten. By the end of
the fiscal year (in June) a lot of states' money isn't used up be-
cause they haven't matched it. This money is turned into the fed-
eral government and then given over to different regions around the
country. (Iowa City's region includes Iowa, Kansas, Illinois,

and other midwestern states) The money that's turned back into
the federal government can be used by a state if it can prove worthy
cause. And this money does not have to be matched.

What about Iowa's money?

In 1971 we heard from the head daycare guy here in Iowa that the Each of the 3 centers got a letter from the district supervisor

state board on daycare (they decide what kind of money they're (the state is divided up into so many districts and the "daycare
going to get and what they'll use it for) was going to try and get consultant" inspects all the daycare centers in their (5 county
$10,000 and use it for model and demonstration projects around the or so) area) about having children under the age of two. She
state. So, a proposal was drawn up for Dum Dum Daycare Center here said how she'd visited them and the state licensing commission had
to use $5,000 of it to expand into a 24-hour free co-operative not drawn up rules about kids that age (everything applied to child-
childcare center. (It was already operating on that basis for 18 ren from 2 to 4 years of age). So since we had babies we would
hrs. a day) The state was a little hesitant because their head have to get rid of them to keep operating or the state's attorney
child psychologist hadn't decided yet whether it was ok would issue an injunction and shut us down. Anyone who continued
for infants to stay at the center for 24 hours - and just freaked would be charged with a misdemeanor. After we got our letters
out on the idea. The proposal anticipated this - and tried to fo- there were all kinds of meetings, and we called the daycare con-
cus on the other aspects that the state wanted to hear about. sultant and the state head of daycare to come to a meeting here in
Iowa City. Of course, the big guy didn't come and all the respon-
What are those aspects? sibility got passed up to him by the three that did come -- and
they said they didn't have any power, etc... There were about 200
Well -- what kind of daycare center could be set up for $5,000 and people there from the daycare centers and the community, and it
run 24 hours a day for ten months? That was a phenomenally low really sort of freaked them out! We were arguing to stay open
figure among all the other proposals they'd gotten, since most and they just didn't have any answers for us. It was either that
daycare centers use $5,000 in one month, and they thought that we might get provisional licenses for one year while the state
was a real "bargain," like the model housing projects! would re-write the Standards, or that the attorney general would

issue the injunctions. As of today the Standards are still not
ready so we've been getting temporary licenses. (All the two-year
olds from the time of the letters are over two now:)

The age restriction isn't the only requirement keeping us from
having permanent licenses. All sorts of expensive things have to
be done to the buildings. You have the year of your temporary
license to get the things done or they can issue an injunction
against you -- but we've just been applying for temporary ones

and not getting any flack -- yet.

The standards for a permanent license are outrageous. None of them
apply to personal or emotional needs of the kids. It's all about
building improvements, fire escapes, sprinkler systems, toilets,
etc... three toilets for every kid or some nonsense like that --
plus other things that cost a lot of money that daycare centers
fronted or run by big business can afford (and profit off of) and
that places trying to provide free childcare don't have the money
for.

Did you ever get any more money after that big $5,000 "gift"?

The $5,000 grant that Dum-Dum got was just a one-shot thing and
the next year when we tried to get some money it was too hard, too
much red tape and nonsense and no one pursued it.

What about donations to the centers?

How did you acquire space for the centers? The 75% matching arrangement also applies within the state. Any

money donated to the center can be matched by the state with 75%
The first 3 co-ops were set up then in church basement spaces that state funds. That sounds like a good deal but it takes a long
were an awful hassle to get donated. It was a drag - we had to go time and is so much red tape that a lot of times it's impossible
in to talk to the board of directors of the church or some nonsense to do. Also, that money doesn't just come to the center. It's
and come down with a charity rap about how it's going to be such a given to the county social services (welfare) and it can only be
charitable deed and all. We couldn't go in and say it was the given out in the name of a child in the center. So, to get that
church's responsibility to give up that space...etc. We had to money people with kids have to be interviewed by the head of social
grovel for it. services (in the county) and explain need and cost. You make up

a figure, $50 or $75 a month per child and go in and apply. Say,
like the year the Episcopal Church got uptight and guilt-ridden if there's $300 available in the funds for matching -- you have to
over "race relations" and so could have dug a non-white preference have the parents of ten kids go in and do this every month.

center because it was "in".
And does all this hinge on your license?

Yeah, when we were talking to the churches, the "in thing" was

being "charitable" to low-income people. It was an advantage Yeah -- to get any money you have to be licensed — and getting
then to be in the churches instead of university faculty houses even a temporary one is a hassle. The standards for licensing can
like we are now because the university tries to limit us to its be gotten from the State Department of Social Services. In Iowa
faculty and students. But there are so many problems with the that's in Des Moines and they have lots of copies that they're
churches' limited space and rules. The houses are pretty "luxurious" just glad to send you. When we decided we'd have to at least

appear as if we were going to get licensed, we started finding

out different "advantages" to getting licensed. I really think
that if it's economically possible it's best to try and do without
the license but if you need or want federal funds you have to be

licensed -- and that includes getting the hot lunch program, which
is about the best deal, even though it’s incredible red tape. You
have to record each grocery item you buy, and how it's used. But