MY Grandma's Fate

Gladys pissed her pants so she could have
a different change of clothes.

You of,

Max the Gorilla lives in Sparky's Basement

child proof your home!

Every house or apartment should be safe for
kids - whether kids live there or not.

When I take kids someplace that's set up 
with only adults in mind, it means more work
for me - watching the kids closely and there
is no reason for endangering the life or
health of a child. 

SOME THOUGHTS TO KEEP IN MIND:

The twins suddenly started saying this in response to any request
even though their grandmothers live miles away and they see them
about twice a year.

Alice and Sam were fighting all the time, Alice is the daughter
of a feminist, gay woman and already has quite a consciousness.

A bunch of women here had a talent show
to raise money for Sparky. Lots of kids came
and ran around making noise which was
a hassle at times. I was in the wings
eyeing a winner across the way.
She was fidgeting, so Mary put her hands
over her mouth. After she quieted down and
Mary removed her hands, the twither kept
her own hands plastered across her face
with a bewildered expression that cracked
me up.

Teri and I were riding in the car, and she was asking me
a whole string of why questions, like she was always doing then.
I'd give an answer and she'd say, "Why?" Then I'd explain that, and
she'd say "Why?" again.

I was trying to be real patient,
but pretty soon I got exasperated and said, "Teri, why do you
say WHY all the time?"
She looked at me with this proud look on
her face and said, "I say why ALL DAY LONG!!!"

BIG PERSON: "Why is the potty clogged?"
LITTLE MARY: "Because Joe flushed his
underpants down it."

Teri has been raised on health food, and isn't allowed
candy or coke or things that aren't good for her.

At a birthday party the other week she was gorging herself on
cake, popcorn, punch, and anything else she could get her
hands on.

One time I went upstairs and passed her sitting
alone on the landing stuffing popcorn into her mouth saying
over and over, "Shit food! Shit food! Shit food!"

Don't keep cleaners and other poisonous 
stuff under the sink. Put all that stuff up
high, out of reach or locked up. 
Everyone knows they're supposed to keep
medicine out of kids' reach but often don't 
do it. Put a lock on your medicine cabinet. 
Put razor blades in there too.

Keep small dangerous items off the floor
that babies might put in their mouths.
Tape over wall sockets not being used.
Put electrical cords out of reach.

Take knobs off gas stoves.

Always turn handles of pans in so they
don't stick out past the edge of the stove.

She doesn't like Sam much, but it got to the point where we had to
cool some of the fighting between them.
Alice invented a game called 'ghost' where she'd walk around with Sam holding an
oversized plastic play hammer looking for ghosts.
Alice said, "Sam, there's a ghost on your back."
Then Alice said, "Well, we'd better get
him." He said, "ohhh?"

What a con job!

Afterwards Gladys said, "ok and I'll
Then looking at the space
...'Where's the potty?"

Jeffrey has chapped
because all his shirts
are too short and on the
other uptraws he dogs it.

"I DON'T WANT to go potty!"

I'm in love with Gladys which has nothing to do
with the price of beans especially if you don't know
her or her twin sister. They are three years old and
remind me of Groucho and Harpo Marx. They're real
funny and seem to be spoofing everybody. I walked
into daycare yesterday feeling pretty sick. I had
diarrhea. Teri said she had it too. She's three
and whines and cries a lot but is a tough little
woman in her own way. She said her diarrhea was
a drag which is what I tell her about her crying
and what she tells me in return about everything.

I tried to lay down on the couch but Gladys jumped
and crawled all over me saying, "I eat diarrhea."
Meanwhile Maria and Sidney (adults) were talking
about the women's talent show that was coming up.

All of a sudden Alice and Mary (2 four-year-olds)
closed the big wooden doors between the living room
and the hall and stairway that leads upstairs. Then
they opened them and began their own women's talent
show with Alice's quirky movie act full of punches and
strong movements and some theme centered around beat-
ing up a man, eating him and vomiting him up. Alice
and Mary did a lot of dancing and Gladys and Jane joined
in. They all fought the boys off their stage and made
them sit in the audience. It was great. Sam is four
and he freaked out about not being able to be in the
show. Joe is two and didn't really understand the dia-
lectics of what was happening but put on a baseball cap
and stalked away. I love those kids.

Put sharp knives up high.
For babies that crawl, put gates on
stairs or have some way of blocking them.

Don't leave water in a bathtub. Drain off.

Put locks on basement doors or any
doors leading to stairs.

Paint, turpentine and other "basement
stuff" that's poisonous should be put out
of reach even if you think kids won't be in
the basement.

Get rid of tablecloth type things that
can be pulled down. Heavy things fall on
kids that way.