BIG MAMA WAARARARAAAAAAAA AAA,  
hg Mm. by es ee  

tunately the last ve  

mitted. The poem app  

full with our apologies to Se  

LITERARY LESBIAN BRAINWAVES ==  

A FAIRY TELL A 4  
Once upon a tell a  
Lived a cindered Cinderella  
Me's her steply motherella  
And two sickly sisterellas.  
Cinderella scrubbed like hella  

(And she scrubbed herself as wella).  
She was very beautatella  

For Everyone I! Call  

= But we'll leave her to hersella  
Precious And tell about the princel.  
We, We  
Betne Stones mee 2 In this land there lived a princel  
By Wate S. Who was strong and bold and richel,  

Though he walked with quite a swishel,  
He was still a hansel princel  

But a little feminincel.  

Now his Dad the Great Loud Kingle  
Guessed why his son was single  

So he planned a big shebangle  

With women, wine, and fandangle.  

I guess I owe you for a  
helluva lot, like freeing me  
from literally endless preen-  
ing and grooming and double-  
check sniffs to my arm pits-  
and skirts I couldn't move in  
couldn't run in if I had to  
(end sometimes I did), and  
freeing me from fucks in the  
back of cars and indebted  
fucks for dinner and a movie,  
for being like me and not  
making me have to scream to  
be heard and completely give  

Up on being understood,...tor Throughout the land the news did trella,  
teaching me slowly, in-  

finitely, patiently all the And Cinderella heard the tella  
things I had to learn, un- There was to be a gay ballella  
learn, relearn, and rearrange (She never listened very wella and  

At first the son did laugh and scoffa.  
Then he starts to choke and cougha  
And flip his wrist an awful loffa.  
Poppel wanted him married offa!  

the world upside down in a raindrop  

in the proper perspective... witha tia r: She knew this prince was quite a fellah)!  
. € sun at the bot  

everything from how to be . oe But she needed a husband desperella  
oe = ipo nigh ee enchanted So she called her fairy godmorella.  

© say no, to how to put up +) BUELL. ctete ‘  

dry wall’, so fear £6 be hoanst tine Tag i sister They planned to trap the fair princella,  
to how to change a tire, to ea an ae eet nti n page  

Seytee teeemiecer oe bse arink the world continued on page 9  

to make sense of things and  
of course to how to say yes!  
For giving me back all the  
orgasms I'd lost over the  
years, for curing my acute  
and almost fatal case of  
tactophobia, for ridding me  
of the guilt of not being  
voluptuous and seductive, for  
ridding me of the shame of my  
"monthly curse", for ridding  
me of my sense of obligation  
toward raising a family,  

tree branches burn  
into watery blue  
sky eye sun stares  

the power  

from that star is yours  
or mine or ours or  

you or me  

we  

are the water witches  

the fire air earth witches  
women of all elements  

Two Carrots  

" 5 +}, =f }  
feeding a horny, demanding, we breathe in the sink:  
insensitive, ego-tistical, mee te inching toward the drain  
breadwinner, and making the = as the water recedes.  

colors in the carpet and the -by Sassafrass  

curtains match, for giving me - : Just pieces of carrots really.  
more loved ones than ever I eh SOOO oC III of the same carrot perhaps.  
would have acquired in a house Peelea, sliced, quartered and  
with a two car garage or EPITAPH gee et eet  
possibly would have acquired She died to live she Until only their color defines  
in the state institution lived to die she them. "  

living in that house might died inside him where she lived  

well have led me to, for so long dying Left in the can lone after the  
allowing, indeed encouraging PO GET OUT x  

vegetable soup was heated,  
"Chocolate" rinsed out into quiet  

corners of the sink  

from wher: they floated to-  

me to feel the full spectrum  
of human and exclusively fe-  
male emotion, and for beings  

much like me that I could give gether  

you back all those things in r« and touched.  

return and keep the whole a  

thing movinge = Then cleaved to each other  

> -down the drain,  

WHY I DROPPED OUT OF THE MILITIA  

Revolutions make people bleed. Meredith Britt  
I don't wanna bleed.  -Alta