ste 08 e CFD eed LE ee es a ee

KNOW YOURSELF - BE WELL

gata Single copies of Circle-One our bodies. We plan to have 4

by Vicki Ziegler and Liz Campbell for Colorado Springs Women's

Health, 409 East Fontanero, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80907.

Women coming to appointments in pairs, how they feel about

fully,

ral aqgote S 4 os Wy 3 7 Colorado's Springs Women 07, answering questions

San Tt has h sett for 4 p. ens.

Several of the women working in our women's health group are also part of a teaching collective established by

one of the few women professors who we know will give good and responsible care to any woman who chooses to patronize them.

We've also been traveling around the state helping new

at the Colorado College. Working with this feminist anthropology professor, we are

developing a women's studies course for the Fall of '73. We

started our work in the context of a women's liberation consciousness-raising group, but have been a separate operation for several

with new participants have decided to vary the courses from the usual reading, discussion seminars, and go wherever we are asked to

create a work course designing for 13¢ a mile. We are always

with women's issues and problems. get started. If you are interested in any aspect of the women's health movement, and we can be of assistance to you please contact us by mail at

spine Colorado 80907, or by

the collective has the primary authority for making decisions about required reading and general course requirements. The main thrust seems to come under the general head of women's health or the women's health movement. The course will deal largely with mental health, but the

self-help as part of their work: we taught the women's health course last January, every woman in the class responded enthusiastically to the focus on self-help.

We ended up with three swimming classes, which continued as ongoing consciousness-raising groups. Several of the women

We learn to recognize abnormality such as menstruation and pregnancy. 

The doctor is especially involved in subsequent health work. Our hope is to turn new women on to the meaningful work involved and encourage them to go in the direction they find especially interesting. The health movement has so many facets, there is a place for every young woman. Currently we are starting two new classes in beginning self-help. One of these came from response to our notice in the free university summer session catalog. We worked through the free university in the Spring teaching two classes. If there is anything like that in your area, it is a good way to reach women other than those attending local colleges. We charge no fees but receive contributions for our packets which include all the necessary equipment plus literature and the Birth Control Handbook. (Contributions are usually about $3 from women who are able to pay.)

We have included in Circle-One articles on the history of the self-help movement, advocacy, and menstruation. In the purely clinical area, there are step-by-step instructions for doing bimanual pelvic exams, for using the speculum, and for learning breast examination. There is a comprehensive article on the various vaginal infections and their treatments which should be of interest to every woman who has ever had an itching, burning crotch. There is

I had reasoned this out in my mind; there was one of two things I had a right to, liberty or death. If I could not have one, I would have the other, for no man should take me alive. I would fight for my liberty as long as my strength lasted, and when the time came for me to go, the Lord would let them take me. Harriet Tubman

printing notes......:

Much as we appreciate quality and breadth, our space limitations demand that articles be SHORT-SHORT=SHORT. Strive for a maximum of two double-spaced typewritten pages. We reserve the right to edit any articles which we would like to publish but are too lengthy to be included in full. Also -

also a discussion of childbirth from a feminist perspective.

We found ourselves branching out quite naturally into the area of women's sexuality, and consequently, we included

Another project for the Summer is to compile a referral list of gynecologists and obstetricians. We want to ferret out those physicians who are willing to cooperate

if any of our readers would like to mail us articles, photos, and/or graphics, we would appreciate it if you would write a few words about who you are so you can be credited. Be kind to

a large enthusiastic section with us----those who will provide good gynecological care your material can be free of condescension, and mailed to: The Big Mama Rag,

1000 E. 23rd, Denver, CO 80205.

a wig Le a aeenmea Pieecartegs er Beate Donna at 39972389

information about our bodies and the problems we may be having with