MY HISTORY 800K53 LIs) TO Me

SHEY TOLD ME I DIDN'T EXIST.
Uf poe Alta

The gala ball came round quite quickly -
So did Cinder dressed to the tickly

And riding in her pumpkinickly.

She spied the prince almost at once. .
He looked so sad, down in the dumpsel,
She ran and threw her arms aroundsel,

"I love you and I need a hunsel !"

The prince drew back in much surpraggle.
He swished away his royal raggle.
"Don't fear," she cried, "You flaming faggle
I'm DustBin Hoffman dressed in draggle!"
The princel was so glad he weeped.
He huggled Cinder till she creepled
(Then left the ball to get some sleepel).
Of course they both were very heepel
And went to live in A.C. Diesel-
gaily ever eefel.

Halloween Is Fer Clowns

By Meredith Britt Other people were going home from her two-week vacation.
In the refrigerator I found
"All who have been Halloween Clowns, take heart. 
There is still candy in the entrance of the stranger's house. The pumpkin grins. The porchlight still burns."
Five o'clock is the time to go home, but the job wasn't done. "Gotta go to the bank," 
I thought lying on my head on the floor of the driver's side of a Chevy pickup, my feet 
through the window of the open door. Bill leaned over to whisper obscenities in my ear, hitting his head on the steering wheel. 
He then took our customers aside to break the bad news. They took it well. I was left 
alone again in the quiet solitude of my botched up job. I had cut my finger, the incision was about 4 millimeters in length, two fifty-firsts of an inch wide, and I questioned the advisibility of stitches. 
I went to wash my hands and think about things. It occurred to me that it had been a long time since I had really enjoyed kissing a woman. 
Six o'clock and I'm asked if I would mind going to Littleton to get a truck. I didn't mind. By the time I got back downtown the shop was closed so I was forced to go home, "Yo, not yet," 
Seven-fifteen, a downpour of rainwater all over Auraria, no windshield wipers, a premature dusk and I'm home. Checked the mail...no mail, 
Looked to inspect the gash in my finger but couldn't find it. Fat Six sleeping in the chair still hadn't had her kittens. 
I called my friend, Beanie, to see if she was back from her trip. The phone kept ringing lifelessly until I hung up. 
The fifteenth day of the month.