Feminist Literature — in review

LESBIAN NATION  
Written by Jill Johnston  

Lesbian Nation is the product of  
an authoress whose unique writing  
style is probably one of the most  
revolutionary cultural tools given to  
the Lesbian Feminist Movement,  
the Women's Movement, and possibly  
the world.  

The book is peppered with brilliant  
insight into the phenomena of Lesbian  
Feminism, and into herself, and the  
changes she has undergone in both  
her creative and political life.  

It took this writer about two hours  
in the back of a car traveling through  
the Salt Flats of Utah, to appreciate  
Ms. Johnston's writing ability, reading  
excerpts of past Village Voice columns  
kindly provided me by one Lake Circumspect. When I finally finished reading  
them I felt as if I had met a very inter-  
esting, though obscure person. I wanted  
to know more about her.  

Lesbian Nation offered me the oppor-  

tunity to see more of Ms. Johnston's  
writing and to see much of the obscurity  
thrown off to reveal a very honest account  
of herself. Many of her theories on  
Feminism, I believe to be the logical  
evolvement the Lesbian Feminist Move-  

ment will be making.  

If you want a little stimulus  
and some new ideas, this is definitely  
a book you should read.  

The First Sex by  
Elizabeth Gould Davis  

"Barbara Kline"  

In this book Ms. Davis  
presents a variety of arguments for the superiority  
of woman never yet assembled together in a single  
volume. Pre-historical conjecture and hypotheses  
(i.e. Atlantis, etc.), biology, history, anthropol-  
ogy and above all archaeology are woven together to  
present a very convincing thesis.  

However, it discloses many pos-  

sible holes in this tapestry. This is not to say  
that Ms. Davis gets her facts wrong. Indeed, the author  
is very scrupulous to point out where she departs from  
facts into conjecture.  

Her conjecture doesn't always hold up; sometimes  
she goes a bit too far, in my opinion. Male reviewers  
and male readers will undoubtedly use this against  
the basic thesis of the book. However, in the opinion of  
this reviewer, The First Sex could be shorn of all  
Ms. Davis' fascinating though "un scholarly" hy-  
potheses and the facts would be much duller, but the ar-  
gument presented would be valid.  

And so regardless of  
some lack of university-  
oriented standards of "scholarship", I strongly urge every  
woman to read this book. Every woman, because, though  
written from a strictly heterosexual point of view, it  
presents many interesting and useful archaeological facts  
and discoveries previously unknown to this reviewer and  
undoubtedly to most women,  

which may be very helpful to parents  
and other heterosexual loved ones. Most of all, however, Sappho Was A  
Right On Woman presents Lesbianism  
as a valid and often preferable alter-  
native lifestyle in the context of our  
patriarchal world today.  

SAPPHO WAS A RIGHT ON  
WOMAN  
Written by Sidney Abbot  
and Barbara Love  
(Stein and Day, 1972)  

"In America They Call Us Dykes"  
from Our Bodies, Our Selves  
a Simon and Schuster publication.  
By Kate S.  

When the first edition of  
Our Bodies, Our Selves was  
published the only mention of  
lesbianism in the book was  
found in a few paragraphs in  
the chapter on sexuality;  
squeezed between the topics  
of fantasies and masturba-  
tion.  

Now that the second edition has hit the shelves we  
find an entire chapter devoted  
to lesbianism with the title,  

"In America They Call Us Dykes". Throughout the chap-  

ter we find that a much needed  
and long awaited pride and be-  
lief in lesbianism is portrayed.  

Like Sappho Was A Right On Woman  
then, I might have gotten a much  
truer and prouder view of myself as  
both a Lesbian and a woman.  
"In America They Call Us Dykes", continues in this vein  
of strength and pride by giving  
the stories of the lives  
of four lesbians. These stories  
are told honestly and candidly and cover every emo-  
tional gamut of Lesbianism  
from jealousy toward the boy-  
friends of close female friends,  
to pressures felt to conform  
to heterosexuality, to lesbian "  
phobia".  

The chapter deals again  
candidly with the advantages  
and pitfalls to "telling"  
friends and family. We also  
read of job discrimination  
directed toward Lesbians and  
also of problems caused by  
the law and by the medical  

professions.  

Drawing on the personal experiences  
of both the authors and other Lesbians,  
the book is a proud and clear-cut expli-  
cation of both Lesbianism and Feminism.  
Usually linking one with the other, it  
goes on to affirm and explain why  
Lesbians are probably some of the strong-  
est and healthiest individuals in our  
society today. The authors pull no  
punches about being gay and proud and  
often throw in a few of their own.  

The book in its entirety offers  
meaning for the younger Lesbian who  
may be unsure of what it really means  
for a woman to be gay; it gives hope  
to the older Lesbian who may have  
always had to live with the lies of  
a double existence and it puts forth a  

prideful and forward explanation.