continued from pg. 7

LETTERS - HOME TO, » +), 9 '"(,
)

>

an integral and necessary part

of Amerikana. And in this role lies the oppression of not a De Mama Se -
but a major layer of, I really during the first issue of Xx of aa
And Kor at any concerned Rag, I couldn't put it down until I read the whole thing, Alta told us eS AS ee ee
bureaucracy: with all sorts of Sols to write our own TEN COMMANDMENTS: té .
Lab SC Rees BELA ee eens 1, Thou shalt respect woman's labor, with the oppressed masses, Z ; 3
it is blindness or worse not to

work, traditional and untraditional,
see the role which has been chosen for you to play. Chosen

not because of your inherent qualities or lack of them, but plainly and blatantly because of

Thou shalt be polite to thy sisters. We have human feelings. 

4. Thou shalt judge any action by this principle: Does it help women?

5. Thou shalt remember thy sisters all over the world, 

sponsored by MSWAC, I was very impressed with it and really enjoyed every bit of it. Hopefully, you

6. Thou shalt fight against real wicked giants, not windmills, 

Dear Mama Rag, 

Dear Ms.,
I picked up a copy of your fine paper at the Abortion Tribunal sponsored—

I am ordering a subscription because I think you've got a good thing going? When I have time I plan on sending something of my own for publication. Please send me the issue right after your very first publication, I think I may have missed it. Thank You, Lisa Kepeyoledl Thanks for your time.

7. Thou shalt be long on work as well as words, 

8. Thou shalt keep thy word to thy sisters; 

9. Thou shalt build thy ego by putting women up, it's great and would like to read 

10. Thou shalt emphasize thy strong points, 

Sincerely yours

Donna's note: If anyone else out there thinks they missed the second issue, don't worry, This is it.

Dear Mama:

A week or so ago I picked up a copy of your newspaper at the MSWAC Abortion Tribunal. I am very impressed with the paper and with my hardworking sisters in Denver. The article on Sex and The Struggle by Carol was very encouraging to me personally.

Is there a possibility of me receiving copies of your paper on a regular basis? There is no organized Women's group here at U.N.C. and seemingly little interest in starting one so I feel the need for the stimulus your paper gives me.

Please let me know about this as soon as you can,

Love—and that's the truth...
Susan Steedman

Dear People,

It's been emphasized that as women we ought to learn how to really communicate and thus cease viewing each other as threats. However, women are one part of the whole. The truth is, people are not communicating with people.

This capitalistic society possesses a unique way of keeping us humans alienated. It's called "competition."

Most women only see other women as competitors because they define themselves in terms of "beauty" (society's conception of what beauty is — blond, 36 bust, etc.), wealth and status.

However, men aren't relating for the same basic reasons. And one can't view another as a potential friend if one's worried about whether the poor dude is outdoing you. "He's fucked more chicks than I, He's sexier. His penis is bigger. He makes 10 grand, I make 8. I've only got a Mustang and he's got a Porsche."

It's really time to stop evaluating our beings in terms of the outside standards of beauty, wealth and status. When we realize our capacity as humans for such forsaken emotions as compassion, love (not sex) and understanding, we can afford to halt competition.

When this is ended we can realize that our sisters and brothers are not mere obstacles on some road to success who we must beat out or get ahead of. Perhaps then we can see each other as humans with emotional needs and finally reach out and embrace each other instead of crushing one another. Relating to women and men will only come after redefining our goals and worths in terms of humanity.

HAWK BIG MAMA!

PAY 15¢ == SELL for 25¢ minimum 10 copies

Available at

the RLP bookstore
737 E. 17th avenue.
Denver Colorado, 80203

Peace,
Deborah fo.