it happened to me -  
it can happen to YOU !!  

coming out by Becky any healthy self-interest is spent the rest of the morning  

abnormal, any desire to be and afternoon on the sidewalk  
self-reliant becomes suspect. outside the graduate student  
attempting to put together and yet 10% of the population in this country is homosexual,  
presumably at least half of us women and a lot of us feminists.  
Lesbians have been the strength and the heart of the Women's Movement since  
the very beginning, and it makes me angry that somehow  
we are so consistently not included in projects we worked  
so hard to help--Lesbian mothers left so painful  
just to keep their children when  
women's concerns are not mentioned;  
just in case.  

Looking for husbands to fulfill our lives soon enough. The other levels, the emotional, personal factors are infinitely more difficult to deal with. Yet it is on these levels that the real changes must take place if people would see us as we are and accept us for what we are. The rest of it would be far less of concern. We are women who  
at some point felt uncomfortable having only options given  
to us by a world controlled by men,  
women who were strong enough to begin to build lives  
which suit us as individuals and not someone else's expectations.  
Women who find it easier to do that away from  
men who perpetuate those expectations.  
We are women whose love of other women is  
often more understanding, more complete, more genuine  
and more lasting than any heterosexual love.  
People evidently find it hard to believe me  
that anyone could really be happy as a homosexual;  
I find it hard to believe anyone could really be happy as a heterosexual.  
But if people are happy, what more is there to say...  
All I guess I'd like to see is for everyone to find  
what human qualities they would like to develop and to  
thereby be full human beings, and to let me do the same.  

May 22, 1973  
I've just been thinking that in the last  
five years or so I've gone  
it hard for people to imagine  
what we are. Not that we  
should feel compelled to explain to anyone what we are about,  
but I am tired of and angry with having people assume  
that because my lover is not a man, my love and/or commitment  
is somehow not complete.  

It seems only logical to me to share life with one who experiences it as I do--and no man knows how it feels to be a woman. To be socialized into a role so remarkably narrow that  
it is hard for people to imagine what we are.  
"How a beautiful friendship blossomed" or  
(The Crescent Wrench meets the Pen-knife)  
A True Story By Linda T.  

The day began simply, but beautifully.  
I rode my bicycle to the hardware store and bought a crescent wrench,  
then I pedaled on to a bicycle store and bought a generator set.  
From that point on I was truly content.  
I was successfully mechanical, and I was using my own tool.  
Unfortunately, no one else seemed to appreciate my joy,  
but I decided that was only to be expected.  
Besides, I was too proud of myself to  
really be touched by rudeness or teasing.  

But later that evening, something different occurred.  
I was still ecstatic, although my roommates were beginning  
to get tired of me. Then my friend, Linda, stopped by.  
She: Look at my Genuine Crescent Wrench!  
Me: It's beautiful!  
She: See my new pen-knife? I just found it today!  
Me: Wow--it's really nice!  
She: Want to go to the bar tonight?  
Me: (who had recently given up on bars and resolved to be a social recluse) Okay--for a little while.  

Later that evening...  
She: Can I come home with you tonight?  
Me: Yes.  

continued on page 12