Page 14 Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 3

Janet Sergi  
The new Feminist quarterly Quest is the most exciting new I am Antigone,  
journal since the Amazon Quarterly. The editors read like a who's Issue  
who of dedicated grassroots Feminists with a long history of impressive movement activities, Rita Mae Brown, Charlotte Daughter E  
Bunch, Karen Kollias, plus women from other countries. This is of the Fates HARVESTER  
the Quest editorial policy: which bind men  
Quest: A Feminist quarterly is seeking long-term in-depth CEE SIGRU IO HAEKN BSS. These women come to the fields with the sun  
political analysis and ideological development. Quest is Sister ss in dirty jeans, high buttoned jackets  
not an end in itself, but a process leading to new of the Erinyes, and bandanas wrapped half over their faces  
directions for the Women’s Movement possibly including the Furies, and tightly knotted at the neck  
such concrete forms as regional or national conferences, a Mother of despair, like a hanging noose  
national organization or a political party. We, the editors, My dear, beloved ones,  
are all women who have been in the movement for several distant now. They climb aboard the Harvester—  
years and have reached a point where each answer leads unreconciled, a train leaving for a world that ends  
us to more questions. We have been through various bound by circumstance where each row of tomatoes begins  
ideological and activist metamorphoses and end up feeling to follow the Harvester crawls over the tomatoes  
that our overall perspective is still not adequate. Where the course now taken and They hunch over its long tongue  
has the struggle brought us? Closer to real economic, though each knows the final end, spitting out the red and rotted and green  
political, and social power for woman? Closer to an end of Each knows the small mechanical people, arms thrashing,  
exploitation of and violence against woman? Closer to the burden pick out the too wrinkled the too hard  
self-determination for all women? We do not have all the which must be borne and throw them back to the field  
answers ourselves and expect that Feminists across the oh all tomatoes  
country and the world will contribute to this process of: The Harvester moves along slower than the day  
seeking. And I, bumping and groaning with them,  
The first issue begins to describe the process of changes in and I slapping them with the shaft, bits of earth  
a Feminist revolution. Future issues will be on fame and power, bear for the both stinging their cheeks, making their necks itch  
the selfhood of women, women and spirituality, and visions and the pain of all todays, their eyes water, their noses run,  

fantasies.  

Charlotte Bunch’s criteria of differentiating necessary  
reformist programs like ERA or daycare centers from co-opting  
ones like more woman executives was excellent. Rita Mae Brown,  
in her Good Fairy role was funny and brilliant in her analysis of  

all that They cannot relieve  

because their hands are soaked  

with the juices and seeds and a few flies  
that ended trapped too  

We must pursue  
our destined finality.  
The seeds  

of this travail  

Lesbian Feminism. Her concrete examples of body language were not Elote helps Be OY  
differences among non-feminist, Feminists and Lesbian/Femin- by our hands sown. e ioe on their ge in % a dying sun  
ists is a fine example of how head changes produce large, Blinded, as our sires, that they do not look up to see  
readily-seen body language changes. The patriarchy will end when we move, that will be gone by the time:  
women take up more space. A woman's space is large. in erratic fashion, They step down from the steel engine  
The last article describes the three main divisions of the toward the completion and walk away slowly, hands wrinkled  
present Women’s Movement: the existential, the reformist and of our own; like the skin on tomatoes  
the anti-capitalist. The insights and drawbacks of each section are destruction. They throw back to the field  

M.J. Lallo  
(first appeared in N.Y. Feminist Press)  

a ees (first appeared in N.Y. Feminist Press) =—  
r 3 tea sos lansing id WSAlLnindansienbiesaeaieinaniienimamnis iat ane es  
rorinatm movement in email study “group Because of its  

n-depth analysis of the complex patriarchy, it is not easy reading.  

Quest is clearly written and concise, but due to the enormity of its THE HUMAN ZOO  

task, quite a bit of work is needed to understand it. The patriarchy  
is big and ugly. So let us meet the monster head on. Let’s study  
Quest. Let us learn to outthink the beast, let us make our place,  
our present head confusion, a better place - A woman's place. Read  
- Study - Subscribe to Quest.  

Welcome Welcome  

To the most spectacular event of our times.  

Here you'll see the most vicious and dangerous animals in the world.  
If you've paid your taxes the admission is free.  

Please pay close attention to the signs!!!  
Don’t feed these animals any pity and Don’t get too close to their bars  

These misfits are very dangerous, They'll try to steal your smile  

Spring 1 They may even try to reach out and touch your heart robbing you of  
eo PROCESSES of CHANGE a little love.  
Summer 19 Yes Ma’am, they’re dangerous all right!!  
eminist quarterly $, FAME ee POWER But we got 'em now. Cage after cage for your eyes to see.  
Fall 1974 Do you know that at one time they used to be free.  
The SELFHOOD of WOMEN Grandma Grandma, quick come see. Hurry Grandma ---the animal in  
Winter 1975 the cage over there it looks just like my Mom,  

WOMEN and SPIRITUALITY pia Bacau  

a ana Aree IPT Sa, 2 (written while in Canon City Correctional Institute)  
Enclose a check or money order to:  

Quest: a feminist quarterly  

P.O. Box 8843  

Washington, D.C. 20003  

UNTITLED LADY OF THE DOOR  
$ 7.00/year (4 issues) individuals,  
$12.00/year institutions sit by the fire darling, let your body warm Naturally, woman,  
a new journal of $ 8.00/year Canada and Mexico while I singe your mind. you think by remembering  
political analysis and $10.00/year overseas let us travel tonight and go above the pale bonds  
ideological exchange $ 2.00/sample copy that we are holding our breath lest that cover us from birth  
we explode,  
I will show you stars, my love terre eras Tain,  
and transplant the strong ones  
lightning on my that bind us  
lips. at the end of the other door.  
let sister sun's brilliance I would be woman,  
Rs in the footsteps of my by first light,  
Center for dazzle you with the cold intensity Whe says SOMETHING Te Jess  
Marketing borrowed from September inside. Filament upon filament,  
Ss, moon, yes, woman,  
there are no corners holding the room is woven  
us ai and ready.  
and I am  
aoe ARe Open ve one Shecat  
custom-silversmithing -- dearer  

with turquoise or any stone  
~ we also sell or consign your surplus gems  
STUDENT UNION:  

BOX 27+ 2050 E. EVANS = UNIVERSITY OF DENVER  
DENVER, COLORADO 80210 + 303/777-1950