supreme

On January 22 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 7-2 that in the first three months of pregnancy the decision of whether to have an abortion is between a woman and her doctor; in the next six months, the state may regulate the abortion procedure in ways that reasonably relate to maternal health. Only in the last 10 weeks may a state ban abortions except where they are necessary to preserve the woman's life or health.

The decision firmly recognizes a woman's right to control her own body as a part of her fundamental right to privacy, and was seen as a victory for the women's movement.

Not until March 5, however, did the Colorado Supreme Court, basing its ruling on the January decision, strike down the state abortion law's restrictions as unconstitutional. The Colorado law, which previously had been considered "liberal," contained certain "requirements" which the U.S. Supreme Court specifically stated were unconstitutional, namely, 1) that there be a residency requirement; 2) that abortions be performed in hospitals accredited by a private agency; 3) that applicants be screened by a hospital committee; or 4) that independent doctors certify the potential dangers of a pregnancy to a woman's physical or mental health.

In addition, the Colorado decision guaranteed the civil rights of those hospital employees who refuse to participate in abortion procedures by stating that such refusal may not be a basis for any disciplinary action against that employee. The decision also stated that any hospital can refuse to admit a patient for an abortion.

Denver citizens demonstrate at a recent abortion rally.

According to members of the Mountain States Women's Abortion Coalition (MSWAC), which has been investigating the implementation of the new rulings in local hospitals, most hospitals are changing or have changed their procedures to comply with the ruling. Some of those hospitals providing abortions without restriction during the first trimester are General Rose, Beth Israel, Denver General, and Colorado General.

On March 12 the U.S. Supreme Court, ruling on the Illinois abortion law, and declaring it unconstitutional, concurrently issued an order that all state governments must comply with the original January decision and will no longer be allowed to procrastinate in creating new laws.

"One thing I'm worried about," said Nancy Stern, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, commenting on the January 22 decision, "is that women will now say, ‘OK, it's all over. Now I can get an abortion if I want one and that's that.' But there's a real possibility that a state pressured by anti-abortion forces will pass abortion laws, under the guise of protecting a woman's health, which will actually succeed in restricting her right to an abortion."

BMIR Editorial

by Bourge Miller

“While the January 22 Supreme Court decision concerning abortion brought welcome and hard-fought-for relief to millions of Americans, concerned women must face the reality that the decision is not at all the total victory sought in the fight to control our own reproductive lives. Rather, it is only the first step, although a very meaningful one, in that direction. The ruling has removed many barriers, but has left or erected others.

Some painful issues still pending and some points to be vitally aware of are these:

1) The ruling places no restrictions on abortion during the first trimester, except the requirement that it be performed by a licensed physician. However, beginning with the second trimester, states are still free to regulate abortion procedures "in ways that are reasonably related to maternal health." Legislative action in this area must be carefully monitored to ensure continued protection of our rights.

2) The Supreme Court ruling makes no reference to the age at which a woman may obtain an abortion. Legislation will most certainly take place in this area. Must our younger sisters still face the red tape of parental or spousal consent? Do these women not also have the right to privacy as guaranteed by the Constitution?

3) Although the high court has just recently issued an additional order directing states to bring themselves into full compliance with the new ruling, it is clear that some state legislatures, state attorneys general, hospitals, etc. will most certainly attempt to impede the implementation of the decision. Those in the abortion rights movement must continue to press for speedy implementation of the ruling until all have complied.

4) "Right-to-Life" forces have responded to the ruling with moralistic indignation and irrelevant appeals to emotionalism that do not deal with the constitutional issues at hand. They have also introduced two bills into Congress (See page 8 - this issue).

5) It is extremely important to note that the ruling leaves open a possibility of the passage of total repeal legislation either on the state or federal level. The abortion rights movement should press for the passage of the Abortion Rights Act of 1973 which would take the question of abortion out of the state criminal codes altogether.

With the above highlights of still existing problems in mind, it should be clear that the battle women have been fighting to gain full control of their own reproductive lives is far from over. Much still needs to be done to protect and ensure these rights for all women. The abortion movement is and will continue to be challenged on all fronts and at all levels. That challenge must be met with even greater efforts and determination than before.

Bourge Miller has been involved in the abortion movement for a year and a half. She was at one time active with MSWAC, and is vitally concerned with women's right to control their own bodies.