21.

Galendate

Come and join us...to found National Organization for
a radical women's union... Women (NOW) 333-6870, 459-
founding conference Sat., 2826, 336-9727
NOV. week people like you to see
19, 9:30 a.m....at Wesley Minnesota Women's Political
Foundation, corner of 4th Caucus (MWPC) annual meeting
St. and 12th Ave., Mpls. Saturday, November 18, Cen-
Bring $1--materials, bag tral High School, St. Paul
lunch for both days: potluck. Sat. evening, daycare avail-
able. Sat. night--open stage, dance, songs, women's
(WILPF) 336-9716 weekdays from 9-1 p.m.

Solid Oak Carpentry Collective Inc. is a non-profit or-
ganization located in Minneapolis.

Recreation and community organizing are key to our
mission.

Lesbian Rap Groups every Thursday, 8 p.m., Gay House, 227-2504

We are moving soon to 304 E. 22nd St., Mpls.,

Socialist-Feminism at the Praxis School of the New
American Movement...class meets Wed. evenings, 7:30,
242 A

one woman working with the collective and we are really

needing to work with men. 

Currently we are trying to buy a condemned house that we
can renovate and resell at a low price. We feel this is
an effective way to fight urban renewal. Hopefully, if
we do this once, we'll learn to work more effectively to-
gether and gain some needed skills and energy to do it
again. We're also doing low cost home repairs, mainly in South
Minneapolis and Seward neighborhoods: This is not
steady work and we're all making very little money.
None of us are very experienced, but slowly we're going
learning skills from each other and from working. Any
women who are interested in doing some carpentry work can
call KATY STOCKS at 822-1293 or come to our next Thursday
night meeting, Nov. 30, at 7:30 p.m. at YWCA.

PEOPLE’S
COMPANY

2 ½ cups dry bread pieces (If bread is going to get stale because it's not being used, instead of keeping it in a bag where it will mold, expose it to the air and let it harden. It will keep for a long time and work fine in this pudding no matter how hard it gets.)
Pour it all slowly over beaten eggs
Add vanilla extract
Mix well
Pour into greased baking dish
Bake in pan of hot water in moderate oven (350°) until firm--50 min.

March against the war Saturday,
November 18, assemble
11:30 a.m. Northrup Mall,
U of M, Minnesota Peace Ac-

The YWCA of Minneapolis is
in the process of developing
a women's advocacy center,

Vacation in Hawaii

The Minneapolis YWCA is offering a mid-winter tour to
Hawaii for members and their families this year. Cost for
the one week's vacation is $299. Details of the trip
are available through the YWCA at 1130 Nicollet Ave.,
Mpls., phone 332-0501. Membership and tour information
will be sent on request.

3 ¾ cups milk, scalded (Sour milk is good.) The pudding is especially good warm
1 Tablespoon butter
½ teaspoon salt
¾ cup honey
4 slightly beaten eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Add a big handful of nuts and/or ½ cup raisins if you like. The raisins make it a lot
sweeter so you might want to use a bit less honey.
Thicken
1 ½ teaspoons corn starch. Stir corn starch quickly into a small amount of
scalded milk, then dump back in with the rest when it is all dissolved.
Soak bread in milk 5 minutes
Add butter, salt, honey, and raisins and nuts if you're using them.
Wait for the rest to thicken over the heat and keep stirring it.