How to Fix Your Car and Keep It Running

This is the first installment of a series of articles written by a female mechanic. The articles will be directed toward helping women who want to maintain their own cars. This first article will deal with the information, tools, and sources for parts that you will need to carry out the maintenance described in subsequent installments. It is suggested that you save all of these articles and refer back to them as needed.

The first thing that you will need to work on your car is information. This series will provide general information, but you will need to know things which apply to your car in particular, such as quantities of oil, sizes of spark plug gaps, and other things known as specifications. The best way to get this information is from a book written specifically about your car. Such books are available in paperback from parts stores, discount stores, and by mail order. If you can't get a book that is only for your car, you may have to get one that covers several model years, but get the one that says the most about your car in particular. Be sure that it has tune-up specifications and procedures in it. Another source of information is the public library. They commonly have the reference manuals "Motors" and "Chilton's" and "National Service Data." Look in them for your model and year, use the indexes, there is no other way, and then get the information you need and write it down. These books ordinarily cannot be checked out of the library. A third source of information is a car dealership with a service department that repairs your brand of car almost exclusively. They usually have the best information, but they may not be willing to give it to you. It depends on the dealership. For most car maintenance you will need a minimal amount of tools. Some tools may have come with your car, a tire iron, bumper jack, and maybe a wrench. In addition, you will need to buy or borrow a couple screwdrivers of different sizes, a small set of inexpensive wrenches, a flashlight, a wire feeler gauge, and a spark plug wrench. If you have to buy wrenches, get combination wrenches (hand wrenches with one open end and one box end) in sizes ranging from about 7/16 to 1 inch.

Getting the right parts may be your biggest problem. When a part is defective, you may have two or three options—buy a new part, a used part, or fix the defective part. When you need a new part, if possible, find its part number in your model book. To go to a parts store you will need to know the model and year of your car, its cubic inch displacement, and number of cylinders. Depending on the kind of part you need, there may be additional information that you will need to have with you. When special information may be required, this series will explain how to get it. When purchasing new parts be sure to get and keep the receipt so that if it is the wrong part (not uncommon), you can get your money back or a new part.

Used parts may be acceptable in some situations—they can be purchased for substantially less than new parts. Used parts can be purchased from stores listed as "Automotive Parts and Supplies—Used & Rebuilt" listed in the Yellow Pages—call first. Before you buy a used part, find out if you can get your money back if it is defective and take the old part with you to make sure you get the right replacement part.

Sometimes parts can be repaired, but before doing so, you should consider whether the added useful life will make up for whatever it takes to fix the old part. In addition, some parts of an automobile are perishable such as spark plugs, points, and batteries. Their useful lives will be extended through proper maintenance, but they will still have to be replaced sometime.

BY BERTA KURPIERZ

(member of 'Gold Flower' staff)

Gay people and their supporters picketed the Poodle Bar in downtown Minneapolis Friday, Feb. 4, because of

In January two women were asked to leave because they were dancing together. The following night Gay Political Activists (GPA) went to the Poodle as straight couples. After a while the couples returned to their natural gay couples. The management did not object—they were quoted in the daily newspapers as saying business was slow that night anyway. However, when the two women returned again another night, they were asked to leave once more.

To meet this the GPA and others decided to picket the Poodle. The picket began at about 9:30 p.m. and continued until midnight. Approximately 100 persons picketed. Unlike the first time gays protested at the bar, the management wasn't as friendly. One man gave me a hassle because I was carrying "Gold Flowers." I had brought some to give to the demonstrators. One of the management asked to see one and I handed him one. He then asked if he could have it and I asked if he had a donation to help pay for the paper. He then yelled that there was no peddling or soliciting allowed and commanded a 7-foot, muscular being to throw me out. The first man also later ripped off four of the picket signs. One other hassle was a woman who was 24—who

(continued on page 8)