HOW TO

How to Have Intercourse  
Without Getting Screwed,  
A Guide to Birth Control,  
Abortion, and Venereal Disease was published  

by the ASUW Women's  
Commission in January  
1972. The second  
printing was funded by  
the Graduate and Professional Student Senate and by the Associated Students of the University of Washington.  

The booklet is dedicated  
to those individuals whose own dedication ensured the passage of abortion reform in Washington State,  
and especially to Dr. A. Frans Koome for his courage both before and after the victory of Referendum 20.  

Since the authors of  
the booklet (Lynn K. Hansen, Barbara Reskin, Diana Gray) have not been trained in medicine, they have drawn  
upon the generous contributions of knowledge by members of Seattle's medical community.  

Special thanks go to  
Dr. Elaine Henley, who read the manuscript several times and provided both technical advice and moral support.  
Lee Minto, director of Planned Parenthood, Dr. Gordon Bergy, University of Washington Health Service,  
and Dr. A. Frans Koome were also kind enough to read the manuscript and to make helpful suggestions.  
Others who provided factual or editorial contributions included Dr. Julius Butler, Dr. J. H. Leversee,  
Jeanne Mannegold, and Jan Krause of the Abortion Referral Service, and Julie Coryell, Elaine Schroeder, and Verna Smith.  

on a os oD  

=  

Sees  

ateta* eas  

ences:  

ere,  
oe  

ee  

rs  

SS IO  

*,  

HAVE INTERCOURSE...  

without getting screwed  

introduction  

This booklet was written  
to help women and men deal  
with the consequences of sexual activity. Too often,  
lack of knowledge about help  
that is available and about  
how to get that help makes  
sexual relations a cause for  
anxiety and tension. When  
the persons involved are unmarried, their problem be-  
comes even worse: Even if  
they have the guts to put up  
with humiliations and moralizing, they may be denied  
contraceptive help. This  
booklet is an attempt to fill  
that need. Its first goal  
is to give general information  
about conception, contraception, abortion, and  
venereal disease. A second,  
and very important, goal is  
to make known to the reader  
the agencies and services in  
the Seattle area to which  
people can turn for help  
without getting any hassle  
about their morals or activities.  

If there is a more specific  
purpose to the writing of  
this booklet, it is to let  
women know that in their  
search for help they do not  
have to put up with the vagaries of private physicians.  
There are community services  
that regard contraceptive  
assistance as a right of all  
women (regardless of age or  
marital status). For too  
long, women have been at the  
mercy of the private physicians' monopoly of contraceptive technology, a monopoly that has been accompanied  
by a moral tyranny that  
has denied medical care to  
large subgroups of women.  
The authors believe that women  
have the right to know  
about the kinds of assistance  
that are available for controlling conception and  
birth, and they believe that  
women have the right to have  
access to this technology.  
One purpose of this booklet  
is to give women the information they need, so that  
they can demand and obtain  
the kind of contraceptive  
care they want.  

Anatomy  

Female  

The external female sexual  
parts are referred to collectively as the vulva. It  
includes the labia major and  
the labia minor, as well as  
the clitoris, an organ homologous to the male penis and  
the source of sexual pleasure  
in the female. The entrance  
to the vagina may be partially covered by a membrane,  
the hymen or "maidenhead." This will tear during first  
sexual intercourse, or it may  
have been broken previously by  
the use of tampons or for  
some other reason. In an  
exceptional case, the hymen  
may be too thick to be opened without the aid  
of a physician. The vagina,  
or birth channel, is the organ of sexual intercourse,  
accepting the male penis and  
the ejaculated semen. The  
vagina extends from the hymen  
to a point past the cervix,  
or opening of the uterus. It  
is extremely elastic and will  
expand when the female is  
sexually stimulated. The vaginal tissues are lubricated  
by secretions from glands located in the neck of the  
uterus and at the opening of the vulva. These  
secretions aid in the ease  
of entry of the penis into  
the vagina during intercourse.  

The uterus, also referred  
to as the womb, is the muscular organ in which the fetus develops. In the upper  
part of the uterus is an  
opening to ducts called the  
fallopian tubes. The tubes,  
called oviducts, conduct the  
ovum or egg, from the ovaries  
to the uterus. A female has  
two ovaries, each of which  
contains thousands of immature  
ova present since birth. Once  
a month, usually, one ovum  
is brought to maturity and  
travels from the ovary to the uterus. If the egg is  
not fertilized within a period of from twenty-four to  
seventy-two hours, it disintegrates, and about fourteen  
days later menses begins.