Hysteria as Protest

century America.

"Hysteria was considered to be a quintessentially female disease, linked to the reproductive system. It had an infinity of symptoms with no physical basis."

Rosenberg suggested that hysteria may have been a protest against the traditional role of women in the Victorian era.

"Women chose to be sick instead of overtly deviant." But doctors displayed a significant level of hostility toward hysterics. "They felt women weren't acting as women should—the doctors were baffled as physicians and men.”

How did hysteria relate to the way 19th century women were raised?

"Many 19th century women reached maturity retaining a child-woman mentality; women were discouraged from displaying competition or mastery of 'male' skills. Overt anger and violence were forbidden to women.

These strictures resulted in women having weak ego structures and forced them into menial functions.

"Such character formation would be considered dysfunctional in a man," Rosenberg noted.

Because of the weak ego structures of many 19th century women, they often adopted hysterical behavior patterns to deal with stress.

Rosenberg dealt with one final issue previously obscured by the male historical viewpoint: The question of intimate friendships

“Choisir” Leaders to Participate in

International Women’s

Women throughout the world will gather in New York City Saturday, March 19 for a solidarity meeting in observance of International Women's Day.

Claude Servan-Schreiber, French journalist for "Le Monde", will attend the meeting. Giselle Halimi, leader of "Choisir", a French abortion rights group, and defender of Marie-Claire Chevalier, will also attend. Marie-Claire is a 16-year-old French girl who was recently tried for undergoing an abortion. Marie-Claire's mother, Michelle Chevalier, a defendant in the trial, will participate in the Solidarity meeting.

Barbara Mutnik, staff member of the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition in New York City, said she expects 500 to 800 persons to attend the meeting.

between members of the same sex in the 19th century.

"Some critics have called these friendships latently homosexual,” Rosenberg said. "But they have not taken 19th century structures into account. A study of such friendships can help us to understand bisexuality and homosexuality."

Rosenberg explained that there was a widespread, culturally accepted behavior pattern of intense friendships between members of the same sex in the 19th century. She focused on intense friendships between women.

"Correspondence could play a large role in women's emotional lives at that time.

An emotionally viable female world emerges from these letters, in which men play only a shadow role." Nineteenth-century women lived in an all-female world and men even more so in an all-male world.

Relations between the sexes were difficult because of sexual taboos.

She noted that the 19th century pattern of intense friendships could help us to view sexuality as a continuum affected by social norms and cultural environment.

"The 19th century permitted easy movement across these sexual boundaries."

Rosenberg interprets such friendships in light of Freud's belief in all people's bisexuality and the sexual nature of all love.

As paradoxical as it may seem, Rosenberg concluded, perhaps the Victorian sexual structure was more supportive of individuals than our sexual mores. The third lecture of the series will be February 14 in Murphy Hall Auditorium. Sociologist Jacquelyne Jackson will speak on the relation of Black women to the dominant society and to feminism. All lectures are free and open to the public.

Solidarity Meeting

She added that such national women's movement leaders as Gloria Steinem and Bella Abzug have been invited to participate.

The meeting will center on the international struggle for abortion rights. Mutnik said participants can also use the meeting as an opportunity to draw together reports about how the Supreme Court decision on abortion is being implemented throughout the country.

The March 10 meeting will convene in lieu of a previously planned weekend-long International Abortion Tribunal.

If you are interested in further information about the Solidarity meeting, call Mary Hastings at "Gola Flower": 827-3810 after March 1.