Portrait of a Marriage § ,

| Book
Review

‘Vita, Violet

by Susan Cushman

My acquaintance with Vita Sackville-West
has been a gradual and increasingly pleasant
experience. I first noticed her while read-
ing about Virginia Woolf; Vita was a writer-
ly friend who lagged somewhat behind Virgin-
ia's literary tastes, yet thoroughly satis-
fied her as a companion. Virginia wrote, "I
like her and being with her and the splen-
dour...There is her maturity and full breast-
edness; her being so much in full sail on
the high tides, where I am coasting down
backwaters; her capacity I mean to take the
floor in any country...her being in short
(what I have never been) a real woman. Then
there is some voluptuousness about her; the
grapes are ripe; and not reflective."

Virginia expressed her liking for Vita
more fully in Orlando, a rambunctious, gal-
lant novel about a hearty human being whose
life spanned several centuries and encompas-
sed an abrupt and final sex change. The
book was dedicated to Vita and contained
some curious photographs of her.

Orlando was perhaps the first positive
public commemoration of a tumultuous, sexual-
ly ambivalent period in Vita's life. The
second public recognition has come in the
recently published Portrait of a Marriage
(Atheneum, 249 pages, $10) by Nigel Nicolson,
Vita's youngest son.

The book has five sections - two by Vita
and three by Nicolson. Vita's are autobio-
graphical, written when she was 28, married,
and dramatically involved in a love affair
with another woman - Violet Trefusis. She
begins with her aristocratic heritage, pas-
ses through her apparently unhappy child-
hood, and finally concentrates on the con-
flict which arose when she could not deci-
sively choose between Violet and her husband,
diplomat Harold Nicolson. Her account gains
momentum as she catches up to events in the
final entries, which take on the immediacy
of a diary.

“An Absurd Circumstance”

Nicolson's portions serve as commentary
and contextual filler, as he attempts to
place Vita's incomplete autobiography with-
in the framework of her entire life.

Vita had been married to Harold Nicolson
for five years when she was reunited with
Violet, a childhood friend, in a suddenly
erotic relationship. It was not Vita's
first homosexual involvement; prior to her
marriage she had been offhandedly conducting
an affair with Rosamund, another childhood
friend. Because she had not been seriously
taken with Rosamund, whom she quite brutally
shucked off after her wedding, Vita evident-
ly considered sexual love between women a
frivolous, easily controlled hobby.

But her love for Violet was powered by an
irresistible impetus, for with Violet, Vita
became a new, strangely exuberant person.
Two years after the affair had begun in
earnest, she wrote: "An absurd circumstance
gave rise to the whole thing; I had just got
clothes like the women-on-the-land were wear-
ing, and in the unaccustomed freedom of
breeches and gaiters I went into wild
spirits; I ran, I shouted, I jumped, I climbed,
I vaulted over gates, I felt like a

& Harold

schoolboy let out on a holiday; and Violet
followed me across fields and woods with a
new meekness, saying very little, but never
taking her eyes off me...it was simply the
drunkenness of liberation - the liberation
of half my personality. She opened up to me
a new sphere.”

After the sphere had lost its newness, it
became infinitely complicated. Violet and
Vita spent a passionate summer together,
going off on small trips whenever they could.
In late fall, they left for France with
plans to return to England before Christmas.
But in Paris, Vita took advantage of a newly
discovered excitement.

The Boy Julian

"I dressed as a boy. It was easy, because
I could put a khaki bandage round my head,
which in those days was so common that it
attracted no attention at all. I browned my
face and hands...My height of course was my
great advantage. I looked like a rather un-
tidy young man, a sort of undergraduate, of
about nineteen...Violet used to call me
Julian. We dined together every evening in
cafes and restaurants, and went to all the
theatres. I shall never forget the evenings
when we walked back slowly to our flat
through the streets of Paris. I, personally
had never felt so free in my life. Perhaps
we have never been so happy since."

The two lovers did not return at Christ-
mas. By the time Vita and Violet meandered
into London at the end of March, the "scan-
dal" had become semi-public and Vita was ur-
ged to give Violet up to an impending mar-
riage of her own.

Violet wanted to make a complete break and
live with Vita in unhampered female freedom.
Vita vacillated. Then Violet married, pro-
bably in an attempt to stir Vita into jeal-
ous action. The two rejected husbands con-
ducted a united campaign in their efforts to
separate their wives. In the end, after
chases back and forth across Europe, the hus-
bands were triumphant and the women parted
in the spring of 1920. Their affair had
lasted three years.

Soon after Vita's death in 1962, Nigel Ni-
colson found her short, handwritten autobio-
graphy locked away in her writing room. He
waited until his father also died, and then
a few years more, ten in all, before bring-
ing the manuscript to light. Apparently, he
feared that readers would condemn Vita and
disregard the eventually stable and long-
lasting marriage between his mother and

father. As the title indicates, his commen-
tary in Portrait of a Marriage reduces the
affair with Violet to an episode within a
larger, insulating framework.
Harold Nicolson, also a homosexual,
did not begrudge Vita an extramarital es-
cape for he conducted some himself. But he
was not prepared to let them permanently inter-
fere with the continuum of his life with Vita.
Though Vita had much the same attitude,
the intensity of her relationship with Vio-
let took her by surprise. She wrote to
Nigel in 1960:
"When we married, you were older than I
was, and far better informed. I was very