IPEACE GROUPS CAMPAIGN  
TO REPEAL DRAFT LAWS  

Three organizations in the nine states of Mid-America are coordinating their efforts to repeal the draft in 1973. If no action is taken by Congress to extend it, the President's power to induct men into the armed services will end June 30, 1973. THIS DOES NOT END THE DRAFT. Peacetime conscription will continue in the form of required registration by all 18-year-old men; prosecution of those who fail to register, classification of all young men according to induction priority assigned to them, and the prosecution of those who refuse to deal with the bureaucracy.  

If the induction power of the President expires, leaving a condition popularly called “zero draft calls," the manpower mustering authority and the selective service machinery (which classifies and holds ready the manpower needed for war or for counter-insurgency actions)...will be in abeyance...READY TO BE ACTIVATED FOR THE NEXT "VIETNAM"...for the continuing of militarism in peacetime.  

(See War Without End by Michael Klare)  

Flo Kennedy  
Headlines University Conference  

This month Feminists of both sexes will have an unprecedented opportunity to get together with those of the same persuasion. University of Minnesota Women's Liberation will, on Feb. 2 and 3, sponsor a conference on The New Feminism: Cultural, Educational, Church Women and Political Implications. Feminist actions on a local, national, and international scale will be discussed. Guest speakers of national renown have been obtained. Present will be Flo Kennedy, black activist, civil rights lawyer, co-founder of NOW and the Feminist Party, and author of Abortion Rap, and Barbara Roberts, M.D., coordinator of the Women's National Abortion Action Coalition and part-time abortionist in her home state of Maryland. Also present will be an abortion rights activist from Canada, and a local black woman who will discuss forced sterilization.  

There will be a women's art display, and women poets and singers will present their work. There will be a multi-media show and a well-known feminist film will be aired.  

The function will be held in Coffman Memorial Union at the University of Minnesota. Admission will be inexpensive. For more information, give us a ring at 373-0033.  

The opportunity to not only pull the Feminist community together, but to be entertained and inspired is without parallel. All are welcome, all are urged to come and support it.  

AMERICA CANNOT DEMILITARIZE WITHOUT REPEALING THE DRAFT. Not only must the induction power of the President expire, but the law which creates the selective service bureaucracy, and provides the pool of men which history shows CAUSES NATIONS TO GO ON MILITARY ADVENTURES ABROAD: this law MUST BE REPEALED.  

The American Civil Liberties Union, founded after WWI to save civil liberties from the militarization caused by the war, and The American Friends Service Committee, founded during WWI to educate for peace and relieve the suffering from war, and the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, founded before WWI to educate people in the relation of peace and freedom...  

ARE ATTEMPTING A CAMPAIGN TO INFLUENCE THE VOTE OF CONGRESSMEN FROM MID-AMERICA TO REPEAL THE DRAFT.  

Will you accept responsibility for one of these tasks: Jan.-June 1973? Fill out below and return NOW to: WILPF, 1925 Nicollet, Minneapolis 55403.  

A three-day seminar on womanhood is being sponsored by Church Women United (of Minneapolis and St. Paul), the Archdiocesan Council of Catholic Women, and the Adult Education Office of the Catholic Education Center this winter. Dates for the seminar are Feb. 6, March 6, and April 10.  

The seminars will be held at the Sheraton Motor Inn, Freeway 494 at Stadium Exit in Bloomington (free parking). They will run from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. John G. Geier & Associates will direct the seminar sessions.  

Cost is $8 plus $4.50 for each of three luncheons, for a total cost of $21.50. Send $8 plus $4.50 for the first luncheon to WOMANHOOD SEMINAR, 251 Summit Ave., St. Paul, Mn. 55102. A luncheon ticket will be mailed immediately, and this ticket will be the admission ticket to the first day's session. Remaining luncheon tickets will be payable prior to the next two seminars. Make checks payable to ADULT EDUCATION.  

1. I will write to each of my Congressmen (1 Rep. & 2 Sen.) monthly after I have received the monthly newsletter.  

2. I will coordinate my congressional district, help to find letter writers, mail newsletters to each writer, and report to state coordinator. (I will receive stamps for mailing.)  

Name  

State ; Zip  

Address  

Please send this sheet to people on the stock of this coupon who might agree to be letter writers for six times.