Sex Discrimination, continued

Next week, I expected momentarily to be os-
tracized. This never happened on a wide
scale. Certain selected males were even-
tually told of my heresy. Interestingly,
these men were in positions to adversely
affect my ability to do my job. But news
of my charge was never generally bruited a-
bout. It was the special hope of the com-
pany's personnel people to guard news of my
action from women, who might be emboldened.

A week and a half following my dinner
with Q, the Personnel Director summoned me
to his office. J was a suave, wolf-like
man with iron-tinted hair, black bullet eyes
and a reputation for canniness in "employee
relations." I had heard from my male
friends that he was a shouter and desk poun-
der when confronted with problems he could
not smother with unction. Naively, I assum-
ed I would have to face such violence. I
didn't realize that this approach was reser-
ved for males—full-fledged members of hum-
anity. Women could be gotten around with a
minimum of energy.

J introduced me to the most important and
pervasive weapon men use against women—
AUTHORITY.

As I sat opposite his laminated walnut
stain desk, I became 10-year-old Mary again,
a straight-A student who rarely misbehaved
in school but who nonetheless chafed at the
Calvinistic hypocrisy of the teachers—
indeed, who felt secret kinship with a
fourth-grade reprobate named Clarence who
was the object of our teacher's shocking
cruelty because the unfortunate boy didn't
have the ability to stud his report cards
with A's and to confine his rebellion to the
perimeters of his mind.

J, of course, knew nothing of Clarence and
10-year-old Mary. Before him sat a strange,
"wrong-headed" woman who needed setting
straight.

"I wish you had come to us first," he de-
clared. "I'm sure we could settle this mis-
understanding within the company, without a
formal, legalistic structure."

J hoped I would seriously consider drop-
ping the charge and "working with the Per-
sonnel Department to correct any misunder-
standing."

He had been in touch with the State Depart-
ment of Human Rights. He had vast experi-
ence in minority employee problems. He was
a friend of the State Commissioner of Hum-
an Rights. These credentials presented, J
launched a monologue about his daughters,
who were track stars, and could compete as
fiercely as any man. Women were, naturally,
equal to men. (I privately wondered if he
felt the appropriate female costume to be a
brass-buttoned jacket and tin cup.)

All a Misunderstanding

While the edge of my mind accompanied J's
daughters around the race track, the core of
my thoughts rested on the mildly ominous word
"misunderstanding." Q had also used it. I
had anticipated many unpleasant consequences
of filing the charge. But I had expected
the company to defend itself against that
charge of sex discrimination. It devolved
upon Q, and especially J, to point out that
there had been no discrimination, only "mis-
understanding."

There is nothing so characteristic of late
20th century Americans as their practice of
denying a problem, a crime, a wart on a
backside. And since America is male, I
should not have been surprised to discover
that my problem with my employer lay in faulty
understanding, not oppression.

I hope you will agree to meet with

I was drawn from my sociological rumina-
tions to J's conciliatory smile.
"Of course," I responded guiltily. Guilt?
Why that? Because of that female burden, I
made the error of ever seriously countenan-
cing the company's empty blandishments. But
I had been raised to strive toward honesty
and empathy with my fellows. I should have
approached the Pandora's Box of conciliation
more cautiously. (See box, page <p)

J relaxed as he read the familiar signs
of female hesitation and guilt at creating
"obstacles and unpleasantness."

As far as I was concerned, our meeting
was over. (Although yet afflicted with many
"female weaknesses," I had already allowed
my naturally strong personality to assert
itself by terminating meetings when I chose,
rather than awaiting dismissal from the pa-
triarch/male.) Accordingly, I arose, in-
formed J I would contact the State Investi-
gator on my case about a "conciliation meet-
ing" and left.

On returning to my office I called the
State Investigator and we settled on a meet-
ing date two weeks distant.

I then had 14 days to analyze my situa-
tion. As the gears of American due process
missed and meshed, I became aware of a pat-
tern forming in my relationship with the com-
pany: