AIN’T I A WOMAN?

ty, ia.

i

JUNE 22, 1973  
box 1169  
IOWA CITY  

25  

Volume II  
Number 4  

¢

from AIAW

Since we put out The Childcare Issue in February we've been
through a lot of changes. The situation regarding childcare has
changed considerably here and the childcare issue had repercussions
in this town that were threatening to people's safety and security.
We hope that in the next issue there will be more about childcare
and that we can deal with some of the changes this community has
been through.

This issue was originally to be one on violence and women. It
really isn't. After the childcare issue we were hesitant to put
out an issue solely about violence -- afraid of the repercussions
it could have for women in this town. We also received Jane Alpert's
article and felt that it and the responses to it warranted the space
it would take since anyone underground is so limited from normal
means of communication.

In between putting out the childcare issue and this issue, we
sent copies of a women's poetry anthology to our subscribers.
The anthology was published by a group of gay women and includes
poems read at the first and second All Women's Poetry Readings in

frame are

April 23, 1973
Dear Sisters,

I really enjoyed your childcare issue...
and found it somewhat fascinating that
nothing else could get done due to all of
the struggles over who's going to take
care of the children. I've had fantasies
myself of interrupting any and all meetings
in my area with mobs of children so that
nothing could get done until "who's going
to take care of the children" got dealt
with a little better. However, I no longer
(at this moment) feel quite like that is
the best approach for (where I live).

I'm getting off the track.

Here are some of my thoughts

ON CHILDCARE
What do we mean when we say as mothers
that we need help with caring for the
children? And I tell a two-year-old who is
visiting our house with his mother "no,
you can't have that jar full of peanuts"

Towa City. The same group of women have started a women's press.
We're excited about both the book and the press. If you didn't
get the anthology and would like one they are $1. The next issue
of AIAW we expect to print ourselves on the press. So it may take
some time but should be out this summer.

and take out a few to give to him...and
his mother rushes from the hall to his de-
fense and she takes over administering
what he can and can't have...not able to
trust that anybody but she can truly be
properly concerned for her child's welfare.

And why is it that when some children
are left with other people they totally
freak out and cry constantly. I don't
think that it is natural for babies to be
so attached to their mothers and I feel
that we (as mothers) are at least as re-
sponsible as other people that children
aren't more able to be raised collectively.
..actually I'm not trying to place blame...
but too often there is a cry by mothers
that nobody else sees what needs to be done
in order to care for their baby/child prop-
erly...there is a presumption by everyone
(including the mother) that mother knows
best and although she's found out everything
that she knows about what affects her child
(ie why she/he won't eat; why she/he's cry-
ing; etc) has been through trial and error...
still other people aren't allowed that same
process and instead if mother is around she
unconsciously acts as the all-knowing re-
garding "her" child.

It is hard to fight the privatization of
children. But first we are recognizing that
they are privatized...and then we are

struggling with changing that. I hope that
in your future issues you will have more
on "who takes care of the children."

I live in a flat with four adults and
three children. There are often as many as
six neighborhood children. And we have a
couple of overnight switching so that who

Subscribers
Amt | A Woman?

| 4 subs $5.00 

Institutional sub $20.00
Multiple Volumes #!

too $0
isco D

individual
subscriptions Lh.

how to talk to g and how many are changing.
adi oekiat 351-4582 [PY vom soe
at women and children

AIAW? is on file...
ahha: ant is available now

Upsala city microfilm through:

zsos Cue st Bell tonal
cole p “Drawer

= vent Wooster, Ohio

AIN'T I A WOMAN? IS A PUBLIC
ATION REFLECTING ONLY
THE OPINION AND STRUGGLE OF
RADICAL GAY WOMEN - NOT THE
COMMUNITY IN IOWA CITY.

A SMALL COLLECTIVE OF
WHOLE GAY/WOMEN'S COMMUNITY

WOMEN’S LIBERATION CENTER
4634 Chester Avenue
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19143
915- SA7-1717

There are two new services for gay women
in the Philadelphia area:

THE NEWSPAPER/MAGAZINE
FOR SINGLE MOTHERS

Designed to recognize the unique
needs of divorced, widowed,
separated and never been married
mothers who are raising children
alone, MOMMA is relevant for all
women, children and men interested
in new family forms, children’s welfare
and liberation, work,

social legislation and daily problems.
The single mother experience is
unfolding, the blossom is MOMMA

feminist newspaper

lain |

("MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO") Published monthly. LESBIAN HOTLINE - listening and info service
De re: Her-self, 225 E. Liberty Name. prepares | Se ee personal subscription: 6-$2.50, 12-$5, service for women; Hrs. 6pm-2am, Sat-Tues.
: Ann Arbor, Mich. 48108 1 24-$9, 36-$12 tel. 215- SA9-2001

Enclosed is Pumas eS ere es institutional subscription: 12-$9 1 *
| ( '$4 REGULAR 1-YEAR SUB a - 24-$15, 36-$20 ware S OFEN ee ee

( ‘$10 INSTITUTION OR tye At ate = ips aoe ; ; a alking; women encouraging
' BUSINESS SUB School I I’m interested in MOMMA Organization records & refreshments; Sat nites at
; ( \256 SAMPLE COPY = = -%©nool____— pe ee Eo | Ravine 8 pm, Women's Center

independent
I pepe eee herself eminit a Address
Li 2s ratnon subscription A ARES DRRR wort Pf ae
a BU

Vol 3 No 4 AINT # 

A)

KATHY

Kathy, pick up the gun

that your father used to kill
your mother.

It is yours.

It is your inheritance.

Take revenge on this putrid
patriarchal world.

Your mother's murder is part of
the world-wide woman genocide.

Your father is one of the everyday
murderers.

Seek revenge, Kathy.

Am I being followed?

What is that noise?

Planning my karate attacks.

If he's tall—kick him in the shins.

And do an elbow punch to his stomach.

If he's short—go for his eyes.

If he comes up behind me, smash his instep.

I hate it.

I hate it.

I hate the need to always be conscious of
my survival.

In my house.

Lock the doors.

Don't take a bath when no one else is home.

I try to ignore the cats which sound like
murders, rapists, intruders.
Watching kids—doubles, triples,
multiplies by thousands.
The caution.
The fear.
The need to protect.
What if something happened to one of them?
Can I really defend them and me?
I don't know.
I really don't know.
This constant fear.

And no one did.
Pure luck.

My fear of men is so deep-rooted.
So real.

Hundreds of men every day pass through the
cafeteria line.

And I think any one of these men

Could be a murderer.

The murderer of the student nurse who was
killed in her dorm room over spring
break.

Almost every one of these men

Is a personal threat to my life.

They hate women.

Want us destroyed.

They are so helpless and stupid.

"How do you get coffee?"

"Can I give you 3¢?"

"How does the creamer work?"

"I have the change"—and I know he hardly
ever does.

They spill things all the time.

And they take their inability to function

in this world

As a natural expected phenomenon.

They turn their inferiority into hatred.

Choose your weapons
And use your anger well.

Become a woman-loving woman. Newark and NYC.

I used to walk down the streets of

Brute obnoxiousness.
Slamming the money down.

Become strong and learn to resist: "Alone; Throwing it all over
men, leading a quacking toy duck on a string. When I told one of the men, half-smiling,
‘bela Ge he was a little slow in always having.

Men are too dangerous to be with
And women are too beautiful to
neglect.
Pick up that gun, Kathy
And help us blow their world
to pieces.

PARANOIA

What I hate most about being
a woman

Is the unavoidable

Almost always present paranoia.

Every day.

Every day watching

Keeping my sixth sense of woman's
awareness

Alive and alert.

Walking down the street.

Where are all the cars?

Is anyone in them?

What's in that alley?

Pretending I was crazy
So maybe no one would bother me.

His money ready.
He replied,
"Oh, it's so nice you're so maternal.”
Everything of theirs is a distortion!
I fear their stupidity.
Their hatred.
Their envy of women.
Their physical strength.
I need a lesbian nation.
As a reality
Not as a toy in my head.
Paranoia is one of the great contributors
To women being half people,
And I know that any woman's paranoia is
real.
I would like to get a gun.

= Rowboat

OOS
SS

“The Enormous Contradiction
We Have Sold Ourselves”

The murder and suicide of Pat Cone and her ex-husband, respec-
tively, in Lone Tree last week is too "close to home" both liter-
ally (because she worked and had friends here in Iowa City) and sym-
bolically (because every woman has seen and/or felt violence done
by a man or men to her or a woman close to her) for us to just let
it go by.

At the same time we saw the repeated fatal beatings, stranglings,
shootings of women by men close to them (we hear/see it on the
radio, TV, and newspapers every day) not as isolated incidents or
peculiar private crimes but as the product of the values our soc-
iety cherishes and promotes.

Males are socialized to see violence towards others, espec-
ially females, as a sign of affection. Females are socialized to
disarm their natural, self-protective instincts and to accept that
"VIOLENCE=LOVE" double-think as truth. For males in our culture,
violence serves two purposes: (1) as a defense and outlet for
hostility and (2) as a love message, a way of communicating af-
fection (or deep caring). "I can't live without you," so popular
in our songs and romantic myths translates easily into: "so I'll
die unless I can have you." Similarly, "I don't want you to live
without me" becomes "I'll kill you if you leave me."

In school and families around the time of puberty, girls are
taught to double-think when violence is done to them by boys, to not
react naturally and fight back, but rather to interpret a boy's
hitting them as "he loves me!" This brainwashing is an important
factor in preventing a woman from taking action to stop a man's
hurting her. Similarly, it works as an effective stop to anyone
else's interfering when a man is seen—say, on the street—hitting
a woman. Onlookers assume that because it is or may be a lover's
quarrel, it's "their business" only.

Even the laws enforce that kind of mentality. In most states
there has been legal support of men's violent crimes against wives

A WOMEN'S?

June

22, 1973

or female lovers. Men's crimes in these cases usually take a
lesser penalty—manslaughter, for example, in the event of the
woman's death; whereas women's slaying their husbands or male
lovers often is seen as murder in the first degree. In some states,
even with the same charge, a woman has gotten a stiffer sentence
for her "family crime."

The enormous contradiction we have sold ourselves—that some-
one is beating someone else because he loves her—puts women who
relate to violent male lovers (this is, sooner or later, most men
in our society) in the hideous double-bind of always hoping for
affection from the person who physically abuses her. How can she
prevent her own harm? He might be nice tonight when he comes
home, so, she reasons, she shouldn't leave or call on friends or
the police to deter him from hurting her. Anticipating his vio-
lence might bring it down on her, she fears. And, anyway, he
may beat me a little when he's upset but he's never seriously hurt
me.

Violence is violence. We should not see "slapping her around
a little” as different in kind (only in degree) from the violence
that ends in fatal beatings, stranglings, knifings, shootings.
Everything begins little. Extreme violence is not exceptional; it
is the natural escalation of small violent acts.

The number and frequency of beatings and other violent crimes
as a cause of women's deaths in this society are so common as to
be ignored as an unchangeable part of "the way things are."

But nothing is unchangeable. We need all women to get together
with other women you know to talk about male violence against
yourselves or women close to you.
Sharing that grief and anger will help us understand what we live/
have lived under, and will help us decide how to put an end to that
oppression.

The story of Goldflower is well-known in China. A woman badly
abused by her husband, Goldflower gained support in "speak bitter-
ness" meetings with other wives in her town. As a group, they
warned Goldflower's husband that violence has no place in his
treatment of his wife. Still, he beat her. Then the women of the
town went together to his house and beat him. Convinced, he changed
his behavior; so did other men in the town.

Violence is no kin to loving. We must not lie to ourselves
about that anymore. We must teach our children the truth, too.

We must enforce our demand that violence against women stop. To do
that we must begin where we are, now.

Castrating  
bitches  

Dedicated to Sarah Ottens  

Our goal is to regain control of our own bodies and lives.  
Yet, I am always amused and often greatly irritated to  
hear claims that the women's movement seeks to  
emasculate men. I should like to point out the irony of it.  
Women’s bodies have been subjected to men’s  
imaginations and manipulations for centuries.  

There were the pre-revolutionary Chinese who broke  
their women’s feet and socialized them into believing they  
were more beautiful that way when in reality they had  
fixed it so that their women could never run away from  
their slave positions.  

There were Moslem men who buried their women under  
veils and robes in the sweltering desert sun in order to  
inhibit their own sexual desires.  

There were the American bluecoats who sliced the  
genitals of Indian men and women, wearing the women's  
genitals on their hats for sport.  

There were the tortures of chastity belts, those iron girdles  
which not only prevented a woman's freedom of  
choice, but which were unbearable, cold contraptions  
which collected filth and disease. Women were left at home  
burning with disease while their Christian soldiers were  
raping Moslem women or lying dead on battlefields, the  
chastity belts’ keys gone forever.  

Freud managed to further louse things up for women by  
subjecting their psyches to his male interpretations of  
female sexuality. Post-Freudian doctors operated on  
women, removing their clitorises so they would experience  
the vaginal orgasms that Freud thought to be more mature  
than the “immature” clitoral orgasms.  

There were women who, because of church doctrine,  
were burned as witches, who died or suffered from forced  
motherhood or in the hands of illegal abortionists because  
the patriarchal church banned birth control and abortion.  
All these, not to mention countless women past and present  
in all societies who have been subjected by men to  
beatings, rape, murder, and prostitution.  

Certainly when I think of all these inhuman,  
premeditated cruelties that women's bodies have endured  
due to whims of their menfolk, I must laugh in rage against  
some man's fear of being emasculated. When I dream of  
the inner rage of women collectively coming together for a  
purpose, and think: **Castration?’’...It would be too kind.  

The demystified Fortress  

Then,  

If I stole your armor,  
Your tron suit, lance,  
Face guards, epaulets,  
And put them in the Museum  
Under the Tower  
Where I secretly practiced  
Wearing them.  

I even perfected  
Your signature  

On my death warrant,  
Daddy,  
ALL of you aromatre,  
Robins-egg blue.  

Then I sat in the glass Tower  
Wondering if you could see me  
without my tron vest  

Or red wig; like Queen Bess  
Imagined letting your severed head  
Bleed over my velvet robe.  

--Barbara Unger  

Due to a pregnancy I was married at 19. My groom was 22. Men-  
tally and emotionally we were both children. During the first two  

years of my marriage I was slapped and knocked around quite often.  

Usually it happened when I could no longer keep my mouth shut and  
became "bitchy" about the fact that I was always home alone while  
he was out drinking or playing poker or with his girlfriend.  

Once he hit me while I was attempting to learn how to drive "be-  
cause I was so stupid." The encounter that I remember most vividly  
occurred the night I brought my child home from the hospital. It  
had never occurred to me to ask his permission to breastfeed my  
baby. It seems he had some fucked up hang-up about nursing. He  
claimed that he didn't want anyone sucking on my tits but him.  

I was completely intimidated and changed immediately to the bottle  
method. I never even considered nursing my second child. I had  

a black eye for two weeks that I received after a party for yelling  
at him in front of his friends about having an affair.  

For a long time I never said anything to anyone except my clos-  
est friend. Everyone who knew him thought him a gentle and kind  
person. During this time I never fought back. I just cowered and  
cried. I think I felt that the shame he later felt each time was  
my strongest weapon. At some point I couldn't stand it any longer  
and started to hit back. That may have happened twice before the  
violence ceased for good. I told him if he ever touched me again  
I would leave him. It took me four more years to get my shit to-  
gether to do that but it wasn't due to violence. Once during that  
time I confessed all this to some women who were also married.  

They all admitted similar experiences that they had never discussed  
before.  

Why this is not talked about, I'm not sure. I imagine most  
women are trying to protect their husbands, their marriages; mostly  
it is a real loss of face in suburban circles to admit that you are  
unhappy. I was never actually beat up, just knocked around. Some  
women are not so lucky and still nobody is talking. The taboo  
against admitting all this is so great that even now I find it in-  
credibly difficult to write this article.  

It's really bad but I kind of have an attitude that goes along the lines of straight  
women who are assaulted by their boyfriends and still continue to relate to them are  
stupid and there doesn't seem to be much I can do about it. I mean if they continue  
to allow themselves to be fucked over (and I see being fucked over as a form of vio-  
lence) and especially hit, then I can’t see a road open for me to even begin to bring  
them down. I don't know how to tell someone to take that first step. I see that as es-  
sential to dealing with women and violence. Women are going to have to retaliate and I  

Page 4  

know if I'm putting my life on that kind of line, it's not going to be for someone who  
will go and do the same thing over again.  

I want revenge and I deserve it but the revenge I seek is (1) personal against men  
that fuck lesbians over (2) political i.e. maybe it will give women courage to do some-  
thing about the violence they themselves are subjected to. I want men everywhere to  
be afraid of women in the same manner women are afraid of men. Men are not going to  
take this fear on voluntarily; they are going to have to be subjected to women's rage  
and not to one woman's rage but to women as a whole. I want the guy that I pass on a  
dark street late at night to be as afraid  

the morning and hear on the news that a man  
was found castrated in an alley every time I  
hear that a woman has been raped. I am para-  
noid and scared shitless of men because I  
know their violence that is directed toward  
women comes from a basic premise that women  
are lesser persons than they are and will  
not be able to harass them as much as a  
man (an equal) can so it's no sweat - no  
sweat to bat them around a bit. Well, they  
have got to learn that we are persons; we  
tried the education, dissertation, kissing  
ass methods and women are still getting  
abused constantly so every day it becomes  
more and more apparent that direct physi-  
cal assault is the only answer.

MOTHER RIGHT:

a new feminist theory

by Jane Alpert

Jane Alpert has been underground since 1970, just before her trial for conspiracy to bomb various buildings in New York City.

PART I: An Open Letter to the Weatherwomen

Dear Sisters in the Weather Underground:

I am addressing this piece to you, in spite of the fact that my
concern at this point is with a far broader spectrum of women than
your tiny band of forgotten leftists, because it was our arguments
of the past year that convinced me to publicize my conversion from
the left to radical feminism. I realized after these arguments that
for me to keep silence would only support the illusion that the
"underground" is united around the male politics which you still
espouse, and these politics and practices are too reprehensible to
me as a feminist to protect them by silence. I know that seeing
this letter - which you thought you would receive as a private com-
munication - here in print will shock you and that you will regard
much of its contents as a breach of the tacit code of honor among
political fugitives. Nevertheless, my own politics demand that I
share with all women my knowledge of the sexual oppression of the
left, if only to warn other sisters against the pain that has been
inflicted on us. Perhaps you personally will never open up to fem-
inism; yet the experiences I am going to relate may speak more ef-
fectively to women involved in other branches of the left, from
McGovern organizers to Socialist Workers Party members. And I have
some hope that the impact of a public statement may do what none of
my private arguments have succeeded in doing: persuade you to leave
the dying left in which you are floundering and begin to put your
immense courage and unique skills to work for women - for yourselves.

Since this is an open letter, let me summarize for other women
what you already know of my history underground and as a feminist.
I became a fugitive in May 1970, a few days before my scheduled
sentencing for conspiracy to bomb military and war-related corpor-
ate buildings in Manhattan. I was never part of SDS or of Weather-
man, and although I'd had conversations with Weatherpeople which
were influential in my decision to go underground rather than to
prison, I lost contact with the organization shortly after I became
a fugitive. I was a serious militant leftist at that time, and the
most feminist activity I'd ever been involved with was the all-
women’s newspaper Rat, which, despite its exclusion of men, re-
mained thoroughly left-identified. In the last three years I have
become a radical feminist. The change in my politics has not been
sudden, and I want to go into its causes and its substance much
more fully later in this paper. For now, I only want to set the
scene of my renewed acquaintance with the Weather Underground by
saying that when it occurred I was decisively through with the left
and had, at least mentally, rededicated myself to the cause of a
revolution made by and for women.

It was in this general frame of mind then, just about a year ago,
that I was attending a public lecture and, a few minutes after seat-
ing myself, noticed a man sitting nearby who looked vaguely famil-
iar. I would not have noticed him at all except for the fact that
he was very obviously staring at me and at the same time making
laughing, surprised comments to the people around him. I thought
with some alarm that he must be either an agent or a dangerous fool,
and I was both more and less apprehensive when I finally realized
who he was.

It was Mark Rudd.

After I recovered from the shock, I became excited by this rare
and unhoped-for opportunity to share experiences with a fellow
fugitive and for a short time I relished it in spite of the prob-
lems. Rudd was living with a woman I hadn't met before, whom I'll
call Caroline. She seemed to be a strong and sensitive person and
I would have loved to get to know her well, independently of Rudd
himself. This was not possible because Rudd made it difficult for
us to see each other without him, and because when the three of us
were together he made a practice of interrupting her and seemed to
regard himself as the spokesman for them both. Nevertheless, his
obvious dependence on her combined with his frequent apologies to
me for his manipulative behavior in past years (toward me in par-
ticular and women in general) gave me some hope that he had funda-
mentally changed and might even have become a sympathetic ally to
the Women's Movement. I was soon disillusioned.

What finally woke me to the reality of this man's character was
a conversation we had while Caroline was out of town. He made a
special point of wanting to get together with me at this time and,
as we were sitting on the front seat of a car on a rainy evening,
he attempted to put our relationship on a more intimate footing
by means of the following confession. He told me that approximate-
ly a year earlier Caroline had had a serious ovarian infection
which made sex very painful for her. This, he said, was the root
of a whole range of "problems" in their relationship, ranging from
his virtually raping her (he couldn't help himself, he said) to
his imagining himself in love with another woman. He described to
me how titillating he found it that this other woman looked on him
as a revolutionary hero, how she excited him sexually without sat-
isfying him intellectually, how he couldn't resist the excitement
of an affair with her though it was causing great anguish to Caro-
line. The affair ended, however, when he learned that the "other"
woman was pregnant by him and that she wanted to have his child.
He regarded the pregnancy as entirely her own fault, since she had
stopped taking birth-control pills without telling him, and he ex-
plained that this willful and self-destructive carelessness - as he
saw it - was what had proved to him that "a man can't politically
educate a woman." It slowly dawned on me that Rudd was telling me
this story (1) because it proved what an irresistibly highly-sexed
masculine creature he was, and (2) because as a "liberated woman,"
not to mention a presumably pro-abortion feminist, he quite sin-
cerely expected me to cluck a sympathetic tongue over his problems
with this dumb chick.

I told Rudd in the strongest terms of which I was capable how
appalling his behavior was to me, but though my failure to sympa-
thize seemed to startle him, nothing I could say would convince
him of the seriousness with which I regarded his crimes. "Of course
I trust you," were his benevolently paternalistic last words to
me. "I know you wouldn't do something like those Boston women who
denounced Eric Mann (a Weatherman who served a two-year prison
term) as a sexist pig who deserved his imprisonment."

While it wasn't possible for me to establish much of a relation-
ship with Caroline given the short time we were in the same geo-
logical area and Rudd's obtuse omnipresence, I could at least look
forward to getting in touch, through Rudd, with women in the Wea-
ther Underground. I was wary about this because I knew you Weather-
women had never given a sign, publicly or privately, of being more
receptive to a feminist point of view than Rudd himself was; that
you had never risked the esteem of leftist men in any statement or
action; and that the few statements of your organization which
made reference to the Women's Movement revealed a complete failure
to understand it and an intense eagerness to co-opt it. Neverthe-
less, I respected - and respect - you in a way I never could Rudd.
I knew it was your strength that had held the organization together
when the men's desperate egomania threatened to destroy you all. I
could count on the fact that as women - and specifically as women
fugitives - we shared certain experiences that could bring us
closer together in outlook and feelings than would be possible
with even the most sympathetic and sensitive man. Finally, what-
ever the risk, it seemed well worth it if I could give even one
woman in our situation support that would help her stand up for
herself, and for all women, against our oppression in a movement
that puts our interests last. Encouragingly, my very first meeting
with one of you was a wonderful experience for me, and I was much
moved by the warm reception and attention this woman gave me and
my politics, and the genuine respect that I felt from her as well
as for her. (I suspect now, in the aftermath of other meetings,
that this may have been partly because she was unprepared for the
radical changes in my politics and therefore responded to me open-
ly and honestly. The rest of you had, in advance of meeting me,
already armored yourselves against revealing too much of your
"personal problems" as women in a male organization.) For whatever
reason, I was, as it turned out, all too ready to plunge into a dia-
logue in which I used my own skin as wallpaper while you side-
stepped and evaded every issue.

Your resistance to discussing your personal experience, your
trivializing of your own pain and suffering, your insistence that
the oppression of others is more important than your own - these
are part of the self-contempt that has been bred in all of us wo-
men, and I understand it as I understand myself. I can even deal
with your more contrived evasions, the ones that were obviously
developed only after years of building defenses against the threat
that the Women's Movement seems to you. I can see why you over-
looked security so that, apparently by chance, I ran into one more
Weatherwoman than we had agreed I would meet during the brief time
we were together, a woman who just "happened to be" rabidly anti-
feminist. I know what advantage you saw in circulating a vicious,
unfounded rumor about a well-known feminist and then asserting she
herself was not to blame for her errors because the Women's Move-
ment was responsible for her psychological destruction. I can un-
derstand too well the reasons for your flippant claim that it
"bores" you to talk about men, a pathetic way to avoid admitting
your oppression.

But the wall I cannot surmount is your insistence that if I
really practiced sisterhood I wouldn't make demands on you in the
name of feminism, but would respect your political path as equally
valid to my own. You want me to accept your claim that you are no
longer dominated by men, as you admit you were when you first
joined Weatherman, as in fact we all are as long as we live under
patriarchy. Yet in the same breath that you claim, "Women run the
organization," you admit that of the five members of the Weather-
man Central Committee, three are men. And you have no shame in
telling me that one of these three is Bill Ayers, notorious for his
callous treatment and abandonment of Diana Oughton before her
death and for his generally fickle and high-handed treatment of
women; and that another is Jeff Jones, who once told that dull-
witted misogynist Robert Palmer that if I thought Weatherman was
a male supremacist organization, I could "suck his dick." Or have
Ayers and Jones now become feminists too - like Mark Rudd, who,
after a year's leave to overcome his "arrogance and insensitivity"
(which you won't even call by its true name: sexism) you are ad-
mitting back into the organization?

The politico-feminist split is a real one, one that will vanish
as soon as we accept ourselves as women first of all, but which
will continue to divide us until we share that consciousness. It
is you leftists, you male-identified socialist and liberal and
pacifist and Weather-sympathizing women, who try to deny any sig-
nificant difference between male politics and feminist politics.
"We're all just women," you say, and we are - but to you this is
a phenomenon of the most peripheral possible interest, indeed it
only seems to occur to you when under fire from feminists. As long
as you are working politically with men, as long as you are letting
men define your attitudes, behavior and standards, then we stand
on opposite sides of a line all too visible to me in spite of your
blindness to it, but which I know you too will see once you have
crossed it. And to cross it you need do only one thing: let your
own self-interest be your highest priority. I am not asking you
to stop loving men, or to break all personal and emotional ties
with the men who are important to you. I know that those ties are
more...

never broken out of a simplistic political decision but only when  
and if consciousness of oppression makes them so inconsistent with  
self-respect that they can no longer be borne. Even then it is  
with enormous pain and grief and in spite of an ever-reluctant  
part of ourselves that we separate from men we have cared for. I  
firmly believe that one can be a serious feminist and still live  
with and relate to a man and to men. The gulf that is between us  
is not that, but rather that you allow men to rule on your politics.  

Believe me, I understand your side of it. I've been on that  
side - I've practically drowned on that side. Over a year ago I  
wrote an introduction to a book of the prison letters of Sam Nel-  
ville, a man I loved and lived with who was killed in the Attica  
uprising of September 1971. I was already a feminist when I wrote  
that introduction and had theoretically rejected the politics that  
Melville had taught me and that he had lived and died for. Yet I  
had never found the courage or the words to tell him that while he  
lived, and especially while influenced by the powerful feelings  
that his murder aroused in me, I was incapable of writing the  
truth of his male supremacy - that underside of men's lives that  
only women know - in my eulogistic essay on his life. Since this  
is the last time I will ever write about him, I would like to tell  
some of that truth here.  

CoyW  

I was very much pressured, against my own sense of tactics and  
timing, into playing the role I did in the group of radical bombers  
Melville half-led, half-dragged along with him. The pressure was  
of the kind peculiar and common to male-female relationships: he  
constantly threatened to leave me if I backed out. What he valued  
in me, besides having a dependable sexual partner and housekeeper,  
was what he took to be my "independence" and "self-sufficiency" -  
as he often told me. This made me useful to him as an ally, and  
further assured him that I had the quality he prized above all  
others in women: the capacity to love him devotedly, yet get along  
without him uncomplainingly whenever he chose to leave. The last  
letter I received from him exhorted me against writing narrow-  
mindedly of loving and needing him, instead of writing about great  
social truths (the ones he was concerned with, that is). "To speak  
of love, especially love between one desperate man and woman, limits  
our vision and ties us to the past." Yet the same letter ends on  
an explicitly sexual note: "Yes, sweet bitch, I love you. And if  
they ever let me out and the wind is right, I'll find you." This  
was typical; he would never "degrade" himself by admitting love  
for a woman in any fashion not immediately tied to his sexual  
pleasure.  

A few months before we were arrested, Sam began a secret affair  
with a woman friend of ours whom I hadn't seen in some time. In  
order to keep us from comparing notes on his behavior, he told her  
he was no longer living with me. He also at least hinted to her  
that the sabotage of military and corporate buildings around the  
city was the work of himself and friends. I discovered his betray-  
al only by the coincidence of having acquaintances in common with  
the other woman, acquaintances to whom she had repeated Sam's  
hints. To this day I don't know how many other dangerous, possibly  
fatal, violations of security his masculinist need to boast led  
him to commit.  

Some will say Melville's sexism was extreme just as his politics  
were extreme. Yet I have seen his behavior duplicated in the most  
bourgeois households by males of all political persuasions, econ-  
omic backgrounds, ages and skin colors. I never knew Sam to cook  
a meal for himself; he once wrote WASH ME in black magic marker  
on the side of the refrigerator as a cute reminder of my responsi-  
bilities; he threatened to leave me, and meant it, if I took up  
smoking cigarettes after having given them up to please him; he  
wouldn't allow our lease, our telephone, our utilities bill, our  
bank account or anything else we shared to be in his name on the  
ostensible grounds that he was delinquent with his income tax and  
didn't want to be found through public records. The real reason,  
it turned out, was that he didn't want his wife to find him and  
demand the child support he owed her and hadn't paid in years.  

He was sexually impotent unless he could fantasize the woman  
he was with as a prostitute and she went along with his fantasy.  

At one point Sam joined a political group headed by Rap Brown.  
This group's attitude toward women was bigotry itself: they didn't  
include any and they didn't intend to. According to Brown himself,  
as quoted by Melville, women would be "a distraction from serious  
business." When I confronted Sam on this, he seemed slightly en-  
barrassed but wouldn't even commit himself to discussing male su-  
premacy with his new idol, Rap Brown. Recalling this, I'm reminded  
ironically of the division of all-Black bomber pilots stationed  
out of Texas during World War II who, despite phenomenal sacri-  
fices and heroism were forbidden the supposed privilege of being  
integrated with White battalions. How strange it is that not only  
the man I lived with but one of the most brilliant and sophisto-  
cated Black militants of the 1960s should turn out to have the  
same kind of crass ignorance about women.  

And so, my sisters in Weatherman, you fast and organize and  
demonstrate for Attica. Don't send me news clippings about it,  
don't tell me how much those deaths moved you.  

I will mourn the loss of 42 male supremacists no longer.  

6 volume 3 number 4  

Part II: The Education of a Feminist At-Large  

My first year underground was very hard. Expecting to die for  
the Revolution in a matter of months, I was unprepared to find my-  
self not only alive but living a rather unadventurous and secluded  
existence less than a year after "disappearing." I found it in-  
creasingly difficult to get along with the friends with whom I was  
still in touch, especially with the men who were becoming increas-  
ingly overbearing and critical of my actions, as I was growing in-  
creasingly sensitive to their interference. Chafing at every re-  
striction, hostile even to the one woman friend I really cared for,  
I finally decided to take off on my own, reasoning that it couldn't  
get much worse. I started to travel and for a few months just  
roamed, almost aimlessly, from one community to another across the  
country.  

As I traveled, I slowly became aware that nothing was less rele-  
vant to the lives of most people in this country than the white  
left, with which I still identified myself. The leftist (and right-  
ist, for that matter) distinctions between working class and ruling  
class, hippies and straight people, youth and Establishment, all  
seemed increasingly absurd to me. They seemed to determine nothing  
of certainty about anyone's attitude or political outlook. As I  
moved around I could see more clearly than ever the oppression of  
Black, Chicano, Puerto Rican and Indian peoples. Yet at the same  
time I was learning concretely that women existed in well-defined  
subcultures within each White and Third World community. Finally  
all my experiences kept reminding me of one fact of my own identity  
I was continually trying to forget: that I was a woman. Men, Third  
World and otherwise, young and old, hippie and straight, related to  
me as Woman, all my other interests or characteristics being, in  
their eyes, mere modifications of that one essential. Whether I was  
desired, rejected, abused, admired, ignored, treated with kindness  
or hostility, it was basically because I was a female doing whatever  
it was I was doing. Women generally took their cue of how to relate  
to me from the way men related to me, or I to men. It occurred to  
me that this was no different from the way people I had known for  
years had related to me but because we had known each other well I  
had been aware of the subtleties in our relationships to the point  
of being blind to the underlying structure. Of course I had heard  
feminists express these perceptions before, and had even asserted  
them myself occasionally, but I had never internalized them. I now  
began to think that if my politics were to be based on my own situ-  
ation and not on someone else's perception of reality, I would have  
to deal with the fact that the rest of the world thought of me as a  
woman first of all, before it even listened to what I had to say.  

Together with these discoveries, I began to realize the astonish-  
ing impact the Women's Movement has had over the U.S. in just a few  
years. I could see women everywhere, White, Black, Brown, Indian,  
responding in their daily lives to the fact that some woman some-  
where had said, "Men oppress us." I came to know Chicana women liv-  
ing in a barrio who were organizing women's health care programs  
and women's antirape squadrons to patrol their own neighborhood.  

A White woman, mother of three, from a poor Southern family and on  
welfare, talked to me with great eloquence about how she saw the  
courts, the police, the welfare system and her ex-husband as all  
part of the same male-run system, which women needed to take over  
and run for their own benefit. A woman I met who had been born  
into a wealthy and traditional Japanese family told me she was  
filing for divorce against a husband who physically and mentally  
abused her because she refused to go through life suffering from  
the same causes her mother and grandmother had before her. These  
women - all random examples - would not necessarily say or think  
that they were part of the Women's Movement. But they demonstrated  
to me, among others, that the changing consciousness represented  
by the Women's Movement has been more far-reaching than any public-  
opinion poll on Women's Liberation would seem to show. As for the  
frequently heard opinion that Third World women support Third  
World liberation but not Women's Liberation, I believe that this  

is true chiefly of a few women who are highly regarded by Third  
World male radicals and hence are considered newsworthy by the  
media. Among the majority of Third World women, it seems to me  

that the Women's Movement is spreading and its ideas are having  
increasing effect, just as among White women.  

The turning point of my personal rapprochement with feminism  
came when, a year after I'd left New York as a fugitive, I joined  
a women's tap group composed of a half-dozen other women, of wide-  
ly different economic backgrounds, ages and family situations,  
brought together only by our common desire - or desperate need -  
to talk with other women about our lives. No one in the group  
knew who I was, or that I was wanted on a federal warrant. I know,  
though, that they all sensed my unspoken inner turmoil (if not the  
specific causes of it) and in response gave me more positive emo-  
tional and intellectual support than I could have imagined possi-  
ble from a group of strangers. They sustained me through the cri-  
sis I underwent after Melville's murder and the dramatic upheavals  
in my consciousness involved in that experience. Eventually, when  
a series of circumstances forced me to leave the area in which I'd  
come to know them, they gave me, as a group, the help and strength  
I needed to face yet another move into the unknown.  

The process of the consciousness-raising group, for me and for  
the other women involved, was one in which we began to be able to  
define ourselves as individuals and as women. Some of us had pre-  
viously conceived of ourselves as exceptional women, some of us  
thought being female necessarily meant being passive and dependent,  

Responses to Jane Alpert by five Iowa City Dykes follow this article.  

a woman?  

but it soon became clear that we had come to the group each in a  
private panic of no longer knowing who we were. What we discovered  
in each other was the pulse of a culture and a consciousness which  
was common to us as women. We discovered it as something that had  
always been there, but that we had not previously recognized or  
felt able to trust. Trusting it - or gaining confidence in our  
thoughts, feelings, resentments, desires and intuitions as attri-  
butes that we shared as a people and which were therefore valid -  
became the basis of beginning to trust ourselves as individuals.  

I believe that the struggle to define oneself for oneself ulti-  
mately takes place in a realm of the mind in which one is always  
alone and unsupported. For some women the existence of a women's  
group or even a Women's Movement has not been a necessary precon-  
dition of that struggle. Individual women of genius - artists,  
scientists, philosophers, activists and visionaries - have left us  
written and other evidence to prove that throughout the history of  
patriarchy some women have found it possible to call upon their  
inner powers to create and achieve and succeed. For each of these  
women, many others who were unable to leave us records have man-  
aged to define their individuality and assert themselves in the  
face of enormous male hostility. And yet the evidence we have  
proves ultimately only that no matter how many obstacles are in  
the way, a few women will possess the ability, determination and  
special privilege to overcome them. In considering social change  
it is of much more significance that today's Women's Movement has  
encouraged thousands of women who would never have done so before  
to discover and develop their unique talents, and to stand up  
against male prerogatives and values with originality and courage.  
Moreover, as increasing numbers of women are turning to art, sci-  
ence and other creative efforts, a truly female - that is, a fem-  
inist - culture is beginning to take shape. It seems little short  
of miraculous that with so little in the way of facilities - still  
very few research grants, little access to the best laboratories,  
to substantial publishing contracts and the like, our own culture  
has nevertheless managed to take root and flourish. Feminist news-  
papers, literary magazines, cooperative childcare centers, anthro-  
pology collectives, legal clinics, poetry workshops, self-help  
medical clinics, counseling services, music groups and graphics  
collectives are a few of the new-born alternative institutions  
providing the access for women whose values and vision are unac-  
ceptable to the patriarchy, or who choose not to pay the artistic  
and emotional price exacted by men in exchange for a share of  
male privilege. Even more significantly, the products of these al-  
ternative institutions (and of the individual women involved with  
them or working on their own) are qualitatively different from the  
products of men and male institutions. For instance, a feminist  
all-women's rock band sounds different from a male rock band or  
from an all-women's rock band trying to reproduce male music; they  
are not only singing different lyrics but the melodies and harmon-  
ies and rhythms are different. Feminist anthropologists are ap-  
proaching their subject from a different perspective and with dif-  
ferent assumptions than male anthropologists, or women anthropolo-  
gists in the past who had only male-defined standards and methods  
at their disposal. Feminist teachers are creating a different style  
of classroom situation with their women students. Feminist lawyers  
are helping their clients to use the law to help themselves. All of  
us are not engaged in such activities but many of us share in the  
changing consciousness that these women are expressing publicly.  
And in light of the accomplishments already generated from this  
changing consciousness, I think we need to take another look not  
only at the old male-supremacist assumptions about women's "nature"  
but also at some of the assertions of the Women's Movement so far.  
Just what is the powerful source of this consciousness?  

For centuries feminists have asserted that the essential differ-  
ence between women and men does not lie in biology but rather in  
the roles that patriarchal societies (men) have required each sex  
to play. The motivation for this assertion is obvious: women's bi-  
ology has always been used to justify women's oppression. As patri-  
archal reasoning went, since "God" or "nature" or "evolution" had  
made woman the bearer and nurser of the species, it logically fol-  
lowed that she should stay home with the children and perform as a  
matter of more-or-less ordained duty all the domestic chores invol-  
ved in keeping and feeding a household. When women work outside the  
home we have the most menial and lowest-paid tasks to perform,  
chiefly because any labor a woman performs outside the home is  
thought to be temporary and inessential to her, no matter how she  
herself might be inclined to regard it. Naturally then, the first  
healthy impulse of feminism is to deny that simply because women  
have breasts or uteruses we are better suited to wash dishes, scrub  
floors or change diapers. As newly-roused feminists, we retorted to  
evidence that women might be intrinsically better suited to perform  
some roles than others by pointing out that men have been forcing  
these roles on us for at least five thousand years. After such time  
conditioning and habit are so strong that they appear to be intrin-  
sic and innate.  

However, a flaw in this feminist argument has persisted: it con-  
tradicts our felt experience of the biological difference between  
the sexes as one of immense significance. To begin with, it seems  
obvious that biology alone would, in primitive societies, have dic-  
tated different roles and different powers as appropriate to each  
sex. And biological scientists have indeed assumed, for the most  
part, that the physical passivity of the female mammal during inter-  
course and the demands of pregnancy, childbirth and nursing clearly  
indicate the role of women as biologically determined, and inferior.  
In response to this, Shulamith Firestone, with the publication of  
The Dialectic of Sex in 1970, articulated the definitive feminist  
antithesis to this

and strongest in women, and as we begin to define ourselves as  
women, the qualities coming to the fore are the same ones a mother  
projects in the best kind of nurturing relationship to a child:  
empathy, intuitiveness, adaptability, awareness of growth as a  
process rather than as goal-ended, inventiveness, protective feel-  
ings towards others and a capacity to respond emotionally as well  
as rationally. If matriarchy means a society in which these are  
the qualities all human beings admire and strive to embody, a so-  
ciety in which the paradigm for all social relationships is the  
relationship of a healthy and secure mother to her child, then  
matriarchy means nothing less than the end of oppression.  

Interestingly enough, the materialist analysis brings us to  
conclusions similar to the ones I have just set forth from an  
idealist standpoint. In the Marxist dialectical-materialist view  
of history, the "vanguard" of the "revolutionary class" is that  
group which is not only greatly exploited by the class in power  
but which is also performing labor essential to the functioning  
of society. The ruling class is thereby forced to respond to de-  
mands which it puts forth in the name of the oppressed. A third  
requirement is that the class be potentially collective; each mem-  
ber should not be severely isolated from every other. In classical  
Marxism, the "revolutionary vanguard" is composed of the "indus-  
trial proletariat" who must sell their labor to the capitalists  
in order to eat, whose labor is essential to industry and there-  
fore to society, and whose work process is socialized. No revolu-  
tion founded on Marxist principles has adhered to the classic pat-  
tern: in Russia the proletariat was a tiny minority with no influ-  
ence at the time of the Bolshevik revolution, and Mao had to re-  
write both Marx and Lenin to suit Chinese conditions, defining the  
peasantry as the "vanguard" in that context. The industrial prole-  
tariat in the U.S. today are a larger group than in either pre-  
revolutionary Russia or prerevolutionary China, but are not, by  
and large, an exploited one. Through unions they have acquired a  
significant share of power, and their right-wing views do not  
spring from "false class consciousness" but rather from a hard-  
nosed sense of their own self-interest. Taken alone, Third World  
male industrial workers are much less privileged, and women in  
industry are the most exploited of all of these in respect to both  
wages and working conditions; but these very divisions of the  
"proletariat" show the obstacles to its solidarity more pointedly  
than anything else. However, if, with Firestone, we transfer our  
focus from economics to sex, that is, from production to repro-  
duction, the Marxist terminology itself begins to make more sense.  
For there is very clearly a large group of women who by reason  
both of exploitation and importance to the society perfectly an-  
swer the requirements of the vanguard, and who are increasingly  
closely in touch with one another. These women are, of course,  
mothers.  

Mothers live by their labor yet generally without standardized  
wages. If they have husbands who earn good money and are generous,  
they are amply supplied - but only as long as they can keep their  
husbands. Otherwise, they have little or nothing outside the nec-  
essities and whatever they do have goes to their children first.  
The only mothers who do earn a standard wage for the labor of  
child-rearing are those on welfare, and that pay is barely enough  
to sustain life. The job is without guarantees of security of any  
kind. Its workday is twenty-four hours, workweek seven days, no  
vacations, no holidays. Total dedication to the job is expected,  
and yet a woman who works "only" in the home is regarded, with  
some contempt, as an unemployed housewife. Women with children are  
the women who most frequently suffer from fatigue, headaches, list-  
lessness, depression, insomnia, digestive disorders, loss of ener-  
gy, nervous tension and other illnesses common to women. If the  
women who work in factories were all replaced by men, it would rep-  
resent some economic cost to industry but no alteration in the  
power structure or the basic assumptions of society concerning sex  
and class roles. The labor of these same women in the home, how-  
ever - and of all women who work at child-rearing, whether of their  
own children, adopted children or someone else's children for wages  
- cannot be replaced on a mass scale without cataclysmic changes in  
the social structure.  

Mothers are a distinctly defined group. Nevertheless, their in-  
terests as a group are in no way opposed to the interests of women  
as a whole, but are rather intimately linked with these. For mo-  
therhood itself is only the concrete expression of that potential  
which defines all women. Accordingly the domestic situation of  
women underlies the way we are treated on the job market. But the  
point of Mother Right is to reshape the family according to the  
perceptions of women, and to reshape the society in the image of  
this new matriarchal family. Because motherhood cuts across econ-  
omic class, race and sexual preference, a society in which women  
were powerful by virtue of being mothers would not be divided  
along any of these lines. Nor would any new division between women,  
such as between mothers and childless women, arise, because the  
root of motherhood and the root of female consciousness are, I  
believe, the same.  

Returning to my personal experience again, my self-interest in  
changing society is bound up with that of women who have children  
much more deeply than it is, for example, with women demanding  
equal pay for equal work, despite the fact that I am single, child-  
less and must work to support myself. If I had to sum up in a few  
words what I feel to be my own oppression in this society, I would  
say, "The enormous economic, social and psychological obstacles  
against bearing and raising children of my own." While my situation  
as a fugitive seems to all but eliminate any hope that I might  
raise a child of my own, even these unusual circumstances are only  
slightly more handicapping than those any other woman faces when  
contemplating motherhood without marriage, or at least a stable  
relationship to a man. These obstacles and the tools to overcome  
them are beginning to be studied and developed by many different  
women, notably by Lesbians who have or want to have children. The  
oppression suffered by women whose sexual preference is for other  
women is peculiar to patriarchy, it seems to me, and would be elim-  
inated as soon as women cease to be pawns in male power games. If  
Mother Right were the informing principle of society, it would make  

8 volume 3 number 4  

no difference whether a woman lived with men or women, let alone  
with whom she slept. A woman would be powerful and respected simply  
as a woman, and particularly esteemed as a mother, regardless of  
whom she lived with. For far from being in a position to exploit  

a woman because she chose to live and/or sleep with other women, a  
man would consider himself fortunate if a woman only chose to live  
and/or sleep with him.  

The conditions of life in the patriarchy are such that the over-  
whelming majority of women in the foreseeable future will continue  
to marry and raise children and to regard that role as the central  
one in their lives. This majority includes millions of women who  
also have jobs outside their homes. The Women's Movement is their  
movement not only because they are a majority, but because feminist  
consciousness springs directly from the role they play in society.  
Many segments of the Women's Movement are now beginning to implicit-  
ly recognize this truth and act upon it. N.O.W. is making a major  
push to speak to the needs of housewives by agitating for an end  
to discrimination against married women by banks, insurance compan-  
ies and credit unions. Radical feminists are demanding less that  
women leave men, and suggesting that it might be more effective in  
building a revolutionary base if women instead move to become heads  
of their families. Outside the consciously political segment of  
the Women's Movement, housewives are beginning to unite and to agi-  
tate for their common interests, starting with lower food prices.  
More mothers are expressing their dissatisfactions and talking  
about their problems, while not necessarily seeing these as rela-  
ted to the Women's Movement; more women within the Movement are  
beginning to experience their feelings as mothers as feelings  
which are integral to their identities as women. Demands relating  
to jobs, professional opportunities and electoral representation  
will continue to be important, partly because the unequal treatment  
of women in these areas makes people aware of women's overall in-  
ferior status, and partly because increasing numbers of women  
want and need to support themselves with jobs outside the home.  

But the Women's Movement must, and will, begin to focus on those  
demands which relate concretely to women's role in child-rearing.  
These more radical-feminist demands include: wages for all women  
engaged in child-rearing; paid holidays and vacations; collective  
child-care centers controlled by mothers with the participation  

of all members of the community, including fathers, older children  
and childless adults; laboratories and research facilities to be  
turned over to feminist scientists so that research into contra-  
ception, fertility, pregnancy and birth can be conducted in women's  
interests; hospital and outpatient facilities related to women's  
health to be run and staffed by women; self-help clinics, financed  
by the government but under community control; artificial insemin-  
ation, sterilization procedures, facilities for extra-uterine birth,  
and related technology to be made widely available. Technology is  
a powerful tool which will free us to bear and raise our children  
in our own way at our own time. It must be turned over to women  
now, in order to prevent its becoming an even more powerful weapon  
against us and indeed against all life.  

It is the uprising of women which will presage the end of op-  
pression, but this uprising must be based on more than opposition  
to oppression and the definition of Woman as Other. It must be an  
affirmation of the power of female consciousness, of the Mother.  
The changes which it will embody can perhaps be better imagined  
as primarily spiritual and religious, rather than economic and  
social, though they will include and embody the latter. Thus a more  
apt analogy than the Cuban or Chinese revolutions might be the Ref-  
ormation or the Christian revolution, or perhaps the revolution  
made by the patriarchy itself when the ancient gynocracies were  
invaded. I use these analogies because in each of these cases the  
economic and political changes were enormous, but they followed  
rather than preceded sweeping changes in human consciousness. The  
ripples spread through the institutions from the masses of people,  
rather than the other way around.  

These were not, and never will be, gentle ripples. The oppress-  
or is equipped with the tools of mechanized violence as never be-  
fore; we are only beginning to reclaim the ancient rage that will  
defeat his evil. Feminism is teaching us, again, the healing power  
of anger trained on the true enemies of ourselves and our children,  
and our anger will supply us the resources we will need against  
the Man's weapons. Yet, from another point of view, we may remind  
ourselves that the violence of this cataclysm is no more nor less  
than the outward sign of a struggle of the human spirit. It seems  
very significant to me that simultaneously with the contemporary  
rise of feminism, there is a great rise of interest in psychic and  
spiritual phenomena. Because the Women's Movement gets lumped with  
the left in many people's minds, it is mistakenly regarded as  
narrowly "political." Yet feminism concerns more than political  
power, essential as that is. It is closely tied to theories of  
awakening consciousness, of creation and rebirth and of the essen-  
tial oneness of the universe - teachings which lie at the heart of  
all Goddess-worshiping religions.  

We are on the threshold of what all the ancient wisdoms, many  
of them handed down from matriarchal times, teach is a new age of  
consciousness and simultaneously on what seems scientifically to  
be a threshold in the evolution of the species, as the genetic  
code is broken and life produced in the laboratory. Could it not  
be that just at the moment masculinity has brought us to the brink  
of nuclear destruction or ecological suicide, women are beginning  
to rise in response to the Mother's call to save Her planet and  
create instead the next stage of evolution? Can our revolution  
mean anything else than the reversion of social and economic con-  
trol to Her representatives among Womankind, and the resumption  
of Her worship on the face of the Earth? Do we dare demand less?  

PA  

aie

JO JANE... I'm struggle

Dear Jane,  
“I was very glad to receive your communication. Glad also that you are well and to hear of your political conversion.

I was impressed by your analysis. It was new to me, but I could see it had been thoroughly thought out.

Later as I was thinking about it, I wondered what is the purpose of such an analysis, even though I have read them, written them, been excited by just this type of far-reaching analysis before. Maybe it was that it didn't touch me personally enough because I am a lesbian and we are prevented from even vicariously enjoying our mother-right.

That is the context in which I was thinking. What good does it do to determine who the vanguard is? Does the act of determining them make them rise up? Communications have to be directed to them to raise their consciousness about being oppressed so that can happen?

If they know they are the vanguard, what do they do? Pick up weapons we do not know how to use because we are women? Or will it be more of a general strike? All women refusing to take care of children and bringing things to a halt this Lysistrata way.

There are other things I question. It seems to me that even though you don't identify with women struggling for equal pay for equal work that this is a more widespread and gut-level interest among women than mother-right. Especially among working-class women where pay differential is more crucial.

Yes, I agree women in the movement are beginning to experience their feelings as mothers, but I don't know that this is any more integral to our identities as women than women becoming in tune with their feelings of love and sexuality for other women. Certainly you would agree that the culture of the gynarchies and Amazon nations of long ago. What Elizabeth Gould Davis is describing in The First Sex reminds me of the culture Sappho nurtured on the island of Lesbos.

I'm not saying that I have the right analysis and yours is wrong. But I've learned in dealing with analysis and direction that if you don't have the answers, questions are the next best thing. The inability to tolerate different perspectives from different oppressed groups of people is a problem the women's movement has. Different groups of women can work to form their own interests but they must consider and deal with the oppressions of the other groups i.e., class, race, gayness, motherhood, age etc. Maybe this is why I don't tend to think in terms of vanguards. Probably different groups have different conceptions of who the vanguard is. If I thought in these terms I would name lesbians as the vanguard.

I can imagine where you are in your head because I was there. The excitement of realizing the dynamic of feminism as a basis for social revolution. But I find it ironic that I am maybe closer to where you were originally (politically) and you are now closer to where I was. I don't know. I think it would be a shame if you let the talents you learned in Weatherman slide before you taught them to other women.

I wish we would stop wasting our time choosing a situation which will according to our own analysis oppress us. Buy a gun every time you experience your mother instinct—whatever the hell that is and I don't know what the hell it is. I have never felt it. Where do I fit into your future society? As a mother's helper? Fuck that.

I am aware that you have been influenced by The First Sex. It seems to be the rage. I haven't read it but have been real unhappy with what people have been thinking and talking about having been influenced by that book. I am in no way interested in recreating the past. I don't understand why anybody is interested in being biologically superior to anyone. That is a distasteful line of thought.

The feelings I'm expressing are very personal and involve what I want my role in any society to be. But I haven't spoken to the point that many women like yourself want to have children. That is a right I think any woman should have if she wants it. How that would be accomplished without the now present accompanying oppression in some post-revolutionary society can only be speculative. But the present is real and upholding a woman's right to childbirth means a lot to childless women. It means that childless women must help a lot to avoid a mother being oppressed because she is a mother. It is free labor and because a mother still has property rights over her child (and I should add that with the recent adulation of mother right it is sanctioned) the labor put in by childless women for mothers is exploited.

What the issue of childcare has done to all of us is push us to attempt to achieve some post-revolutionary state without having made any material changes in society—to set personal behavior codes that are unreachable. The attempts frustrate all of us and stagnate us. Attempting the impossible I do not find admirable. I think it kills and destroys human potential. And I want to repeat again that even though I do see the oppression of mothers and see its unjustness, the property right that mothers (especially recently, movement mothers) understandably cling to is exploitative to childless women. Especially exploitative to those childless women who mothers confront and guilt trip into doing childcare. I do believe that mothers' demands on childless women are justified when you consider the oppression that mothers suffer and the help they need but the subject of property rights were never fully considered and many mothers insisted on wanting to deny such rights only later under the influence of the glory of mother right to take up their right again and hurt many childless women who developed attachments to their children by taking the children away.

We tried to deal with motherhood and childcare. We had a daycare center where childless gay women worked and other non-institutional childcare arrangements were made. They weren't perfect and people made mistakes, arguments between mothers and non-mothers, straight and gay women were heated but I think people were trying. In the end we discovered what we knew from the beginning: gay women are not allowed to do childcare in this society and mothers have all the power regarding their own children. The result of all of this remains to be seen. The center closed because of county and state investigations and threat of custody suits, mothers are still overburdened and do not trust childless women and childless women feel used.

So I do worry about your whole theory primarily because of my identity and the experiences I have had. I hope this is understandable.

P.S. I should try and make it clear that when I speak of property rights and power—in fact everything I spoke to, I am speaking within the context of a women's community and so refer to the relationships that exist within that community. I am well aware that mothers, although having more power in regard to their own children than childless women, most often have less power than men and always less than the state.

Betsy IV of ALAW

page 7

dear jane,

I don't know how exactly to respond to your theory of mother
right as the basis for feminist revolution. I find it to be something I very much disagree with and with increasing intensity each
time I read your letter, but it is hard for me to sort out where
that feeling is coming from—whether it comes from personally being
fucked over by mother right or from real revulsion at the idea
of motherhood being so glorified. Probably, it comes from both.

I think what hits me most about your article is its inherent
heterosexuality and the picture it paints of a post-feminist
revolutionary society which gives little or no indication of not
being the same entrenched heterosexual world. I think at the basis
of your theory of mother right is the assumption that women
are heterosexual beings. Obviously, motherhood, at least for now
(and you give little indication and/or support of development of
artificial reproduction techniques that can free women from their
biology) implies that at some point in time in a woman's life she
was fucking with a man. By saying that the basis of a woman's
powers and the source of feminist revolution is the capacity for
motherhood, you are inextricably linking women to men in this
society, in any revolutionary struggle, and in the future society
of matriarchy that you envision. I think such a theory comes out
of your belief "that one can be a serious feminist and still live
with and relate to a man and to men," a notion which I reject as
totally contradictory and which I hope you will come some day to
reject too. I am linking your notion of mother right so strongly
with heterosexuality because you talk of motherhood in a
future matriarchal society as coming from where it has come from
now and in the past—through fucking with men. The change in
reproduction methods brought on by technology that you only vaguely
refer to means, at least to me, the possibility of an essentially
motherless and fatherless society; that men and women would
play an equal role, or perhaps even no role, in the creation of a
human being and that society would collectively be responsible
for the embryonic development and upon birth, the nurturing and
raising of the child.

Another sort of major disagreement I have with your letter is
that the whole idea of motherhood and the values of motherhood
as you see them—protectiveness, intuitiveness, adaptability—
sort of makes my stomach turn. I do not feel and cannot relate
to my oppression as a woman in this society as being one of an
inability to raise children. Rather, I feel my oppression at

least partially as being because of that ability and my attempts
to reject the glorification of motherhood that is foisted on me
everywhere and now even with the women's movement. Where does
your idea of motherhood as the moving force of the revolution
leave women, particularly lesbians, who cannot fit into the role
of mother—who both emotionally and intellectually abhor the
thought of bearing and raising children? Where is our place in
this new society?

I want to say something too about the importance of women's
history. The knowledge of the position of women in ancient matriarchal cultures I find very exciting because it gives me a
sense of a history of women as being strong and powerful and controlling—how I envision women in a future society. I think this
knowledge is very important in building a women's movement because it gives women a sense of where we have come from. What
scares me about books like The First Sex is the reaction to it—
that feminists are turning to the concept of matriarchy as being
the new vision or goal of feminist revolution. I think it is a
mistake and even reactionary to transform the basis of ancient
women-controlled societies to that of post-revolutionary society
of the twentieth or 21st century or whenever and to see the same
source of power in ancient cultures as being the source of women's
power today. It scares me because it is coming dangerously close
to accepting values which have been the source of women's oppression for thousands of years and at a time in which we are on
the very brink of being able to do away with that very fact which
has oppressed women for so many years—our ability to bear children.
It is that which you idealize and which I reject. I want to live
in a society in which women are totally free to determine their
lives. I don't want a society in which I am a mother, in actuality
or not, first.

These are some of my thoughts on your article, Jane. I hope
they are of some help to you in thinking out your ideas. Take
care of yourself.

In sisterhood and struggle, B.

X¥** KH KK KK KK KEK KK KK KKK RK

MS FIRE

When the rage spreads above my eyelids
in that debilitating form
for a while I don't recognize that
weeping is the last turn inward for my heat.
I forget that it has crept by then
from my community to myself
without burning even the fingers
of those who are the cause of it.

It isn't the tears so much I mind,
but the fact that not long ago
when anger against the women
with whom I work and sleep
was hotter than anger against the cop-callers,
queer-baiters and fuckers of every description,
I flared at the careless word of a friend.

In a cold spring night I fumed,
Learning finally that if I loosen the teeth of a malicious woman
or if I choke, until her eyes pop,
the neck of a slippery-mouthed woman,
I hurt them for our mutual enemies;
learning that if I smolder into a night that burns back
because of a woman I love,
the cop-callers, queer-baiters and fuckers of every description
gather in soft victories.

And so this spring, almost this very day

I kicked the first fucker who passed on that street
and before I was finished

I knew what I needed to know.

April 1973
Iowa City

poy 10

volume TT number +

The fat lesbian bitches

ugly lesbian whores

filthy bull dykes

who fight to clear a living space
that all women will occupy

are freeing us

from the touches and pokes,

the small indignities

we suffered as girls.

Young women will no longer sulk
when little boys pull their hair
or smile when bigger boys

pinch their asses.

They will not make the mistake

of thinking nuisances will go away
if they are ignored.

On your own street

if you do not know

On whose head to bring down

a tire iron,

if you do not, if you cannot
stand with the fat ugly filthy
whores and lesbians

who are drawing overdue blood
then defend them

against the mind bending that
tries to discredit them

for taking offense where
offense was intended.

When even small lines are drawn
give praise to women

who are clearing ground

on which we will all live.

June 1972
Iowa City

Er Sue

}

i

Dear Jane Alpert,

One of the claims that your letter makes is that ruling class males are not going to give us anything we ask for or turn over to us anything we demand. 

It is that mother right cuts across many important lines, including sex preference. Obviously, there are lesbians who have children, some who want to have children, some who long for them if only the world wasn't the way it is, and some who do not now and never have wanted children. I am a woman from the last group, and I want to try to tell you why your analysis is offensive to me and why I think it is incorrect in general.

The religious fervor of mother right as described in your letter sounds no different to me than the ruling class propaganda about the myth of motherhood. It takes the ideology which grows out of "biology is destiny" and attempts to glorify it into "biology is power." That is my first gripe. It has a familiar ring--all women will serve as a useful model in a revolutionary society.

It is cruel to encourage white middle-class women to bear children. 

I also feel that what you say about the "few options for meaningful participation" available to childless women that aren't available to mothers points up a big gap. First, it is clear you are not talking about lower-class women with men and without children who are outside of "meaningful participation." Women without children generally do so after failing to respond to all hints, are at least capable of being mothers. You could as well and as truly argue that all women are potentially lesbians. 

Sex and sex preference are both descriptions that limit possibilities for women, especially when you are talking about a post-revolutionary vision. At present, your analysis neglects to mention the enormous complications that mother right presents regarding institutionalized heterosexuality, men, and male children.

It is idealistic to talk about methods of impregnation without men before women have seized power. I am stunned by your statement that "Radical feminists are demanding less that women leave men, and suggesting that it might be more effective in building a revolutionary base if women in our experiences." 

Further, the demands that you enumerate, about wages, vacations, holidays, research facilities, hospitals and clinics "financed by the government" no less, are idle dreams. In this country, you have been in the field.

Dear Jane,

There are many things in your article that disturb me and make me angry. As I read it, I question these areas of your thought: your concept of revolution, your concept of children, and your concept of womanhood.

To start with the last one first, it is probably obvious that I would have to disagree with you about your projected concept of womanhood because you evidently are still straight and I am a Dyke. There are subterranean hints in your article that indicate a sympathy toward lesbians, and maybe you are moving toward that place yourself, just as you moved from old left heterosexuality to radical feminist (heterosexuality? celibacy? I don't want to guess or try to define you without more words from you). The most glaring example of our differences arises out of your definition of feminist culture's base: “...feminist culture is based on what is best and strongest in women, and as we begin to define ourselves as women, the qualities coming to the fore are the same ones a mother projects in the best kind of nurturing relationship to a child." I would agree with the "based on what is best and strongest in women" part, but as for the rest I strongly take exception. To use as a prototype a mother/child relationship, even the best kind as you describe it, is miles from my experience of valuable relationships with women. As I see it, the only working definition of "best kind" that we can come up with in this society (including counter-culture living arrangements of all kinds) is still distant, powerful, one-sided and oblivious to the deep struggle/love mutuality that can exist between women. Because you rely on the mother/child relationship as basic, you have to take into account the necessary age difference that also exists, and I think it is safe to say that we haven't been able to even begin to bridge the age differences and chauvinism that exist in social relationships today. If you mean some kind of post-revolutionary vision of a mother/child relationship, I still think you are misguided because I seriously question whether post-revolutionary conditions will even embody a mother/child relationship as we think of it now. Later in that same paragraph you say: "the paradigm for all social relationships (will be) the relationship of a healthy and secure mother to her child." I contend that "healthy and secure" in your statement can only mean some kind of psychological prescription that is already part of the idealistic status quo. (In fact, it sounds a lot like Freud.)

That last quote also brings me to my second point about our differences. What is your concept of children? As reflected in your article (and you don't discuss it, so I can only infer from your usage of words and discussion of motherhood and Mother Right), I would say that you assume something of a children-as-property attitude toward young people. You use the phrase "a healthy and secure mother to her child" in the paragraph I mentioned above.

To me, this whole idea is one we have to work against, as we do the concept of the nuclear family, even with the mother as the only nucleus. I don't believe biological mothers should be the pivot point for their biological child's upbringing, and to predicate a theory for revolutionary change on that notion is, I think, a dangerous one. You also say that in your analysis, the source of your personal oppression (do you generalize this?) is: "the enormous economic, social and psychological obstacles against bearing and raising children of (your) own." Here again, the mother is defined as having power and control over the biological child. I know it is difficult to have kids in this society, for all the reasons that were pointed out to you by the women you met while traveling around the country. But you are not having kids because you have the power to decide not to put up with that difficulty, and for that you should only be thankful. If you aren't, then I agree with another writer that you are a victim of the glorification of motherhood myth.

Finally, I question the concept of revolution as suggested in your letter. First, it is only suggested, and aside from a couple of references to violent struggle, your strategy seems to lie in basically reformist tactics -- change (by demand) the center of the nuclear family, magically take over scientific research and practice, etc. The system will kill us before anything happens if we rely on that route. Your analogy at the end of your article to the Reformation, rather than the Chinese or Cuban revolutions, as being the process we should think of is again, I think, wrongheaded. (I don't know what you mean by the Christian revolution, and I'm not arguing that the Chinese or Cuban revolutions can give us a pattern either because they were male-dominated.) But you say that the change in consciousness predated the changes in economic and social organization, and will in our struggle too. I can only conjecture about the changes in consciousness that men went through before they smashed the gynocracies that probably existed in prehistory, but I doubt that they came first. As they got more power, they became more piggish, and on and on until the whole shit pile that exists today evolved. But I don't need conjecture to contradict you; both you and I are good examples of the ways our material conditions changed our consciousnesses. It wasn't until you began living in a culture that contained ideas about women's liberation and radical feminism that you were able to deny and contradict the lip service that you were paying to the male left even when you knew it was a sham, as you describe in the account you gave of your distrust of Sam Melville that you submerged when you wrote the introduction to the edition of his prison letters. My example is that I have been having gay relationships since I was 19, ten years ago, but I lived heterosexually in society, even got married, while I was having that constant gay experience, because everything around me reinforced the heterosexual society and the only lesbian I knew was my lover. It wasn't until I met a lot of other Dykes and saw that the lifestyle I was submerging was correct and good that I had the strength to quit the heterosexual world. And I don't think the rest of society is all that different from you and me in that sense...except that they may realize a whole lot quicker than us because of our various privileges that stand or stood in the way of our perception of our self-interest.

Love in the struggle,  
Martha, from the AIAW collective

nd Suge le.

page H

RAPE is an act of aggression in which the victim is denied her  
self-determination. It is an act  
of violence which always carries  
with it the threat of death. And  
finally, rape, is a form of  
mass terrorism, for the victims of rape are chosen indiscriminately,  
but our male-dominated culture tells us that it is women who cause  
rape by being immoral or in the wrong place at the wrong time--  
in essence, by behaving as though we were free.  

(VIETNAM: A FEMINIST ANALYSIS (A  
.T.A.W. - August 18, 1972)  

A 24-hour Rape Crisis Line is being started in Iowa City. We are  
in need of volunteers to help staff the line. Women involved in  
the Rape Crisis Line will give information to women about police  
and hospital procedures, provide transportation, and accompany  
the woman to those places if she wishes. Any woman who is harassed  
by a man in Iowa City can also phone for assistance. This is an  
independent woman's support group and all information and names  
will be kept confidential. Weekly  
meetings are held at the Women's Center,  
3 E. Market, every Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. Any woman  
interested in volunteering may come to the meetings. For more  
information call 353-6265.  

AMAZON QUARTERLY  

A JOURNAL OF LESBIAN - FEMINISM  

$4 per year (inside U.S.)  
$5 per year (plain brown wrap-  
$1 for sample issue  

Amazon Quarterly, 554 Valle Vista,  
Oakland, California, 94610  

72 Pages of:  
VISUAL ART  
FICTION  
POETRY  
REVIEWS  
EXPLORATION  

all women are welcome  
to read their poetry  

AN ANTHOLOGY OF THE 1ST AND 2ND  
ANNUAL ALL WOMEN'S POETRY READINGS  
HELD IN IOWA CITY  

available April ‘73 $1  
thru: action studies  
303 Jefferson Bldg.  
Iowa City, Iowa 52240  

LESBIAN TIDES  

A VOICE OF THE  
LESBIAN/FEMINIST  
COMMUNITY  

sisters subscribe now!  

$6.00 per year in US  
$.50 for sample copy  
send to: tide collective  
373 No. Western @ Room 202  
Los Angeles, Calif. 90004  

bulk rates available upon  
request  

LIBERA  

“excellent” — Anais Nin  

We're a new woman's journal with  
poetry, graphics, articles & fiction.  
Ft/issue = $3/3-issue subscription  

Libera, Eshleman Hall, Univ. of Calif.  
Berkeley, California 94720  

WOMEN'S LAW COLLECTIVE  

Iowa City, Iowa 52240  

the Lesbian Paper of Chicago  

4yr $3, institutions $5  

Send to: Avenger Woman  
PO BOX 60206  
13 W. Devon  
Chicago, IL 60660  

GAY LIBERATOR  

GET INVOLVED!  
and send a copy  
to my friend:  

Subscription rate:  
$3 for 12 issues  

GAY LIBERATOR  
PO Box 631-A  
Detroit, MI 48232  

(Sent in a plain brown wrapper.)  

Women's Law Collective is looking for a radical woman lawyer.  
The Collective now consists of two law students and one legal  
worker. If interested write Law Office, 300 Whetstone Building;  

Women’s Liberation is More Than Bralessness  
Get a woman's eye view on issues,  
events and trends ... and a monthly  
report on the movement in  
other countries ...  
SUBSCRIBE TO  

Majority Report  

SEND CHECK OR M.O. FOR $3 FOR 12 ISSUES TO:  
MAJORITY REPORT, 74 GROVE ST., N.Y., N.Y. 10014  

WOMAN BECOMING.  

Now Available. 100 page issue  
with strong literary bias: poetry,  
graphics, fiction (about abortion,  
seduction, an old man, and  
girlfriends) and articles (Ms.  
Goose, autobiography, self-  
defense, and Pittsburgh Women's  
Center). Second issue in June.  
$1.25 per issue from:  

"Woman Becoming"  
6664 Woodwell Street  
Box 344, Cambridge, MA 02139  

$3 for a year sub (4 issues). Start my sub  
with issue no. —_—  
$.75 + $.25 postage for 1 copy of issue no. __  

name  
address  
city  
state  
* add $.50 outside of USA; $4.50 airmail overseas  
25% discount on 10 or more orders  

renewal [new sub]  

vol. 3 no. 4  

Women's Collective Health Project needs a radical  
feminist doctor to staff a clinic for women's health needs and to do abortions.  
We already have a place and equipment. Write the collective  
at 125 N. Gilbert, Iowa City, Iowa 52240.  

El otro día me daba cuento de que soy latina.  
Mi papá es cubano y mi madre es americana y  
ellos me daban un nombre anglo. He cambiado  
mi nombre a Rosa y estoy tratando de descubrir  
mi lengua y mis orígenes. Quiero comunicar  
con unas mujeres homosexuales o feministas  
latinas o chicanas. Cualquier mujer que quiere  
escribirme en español lo puede hacer. Estoy sola  
en mi lucha. Escríbame, Rosa, a No Soy Una  
Mujer? Box 1169, Iowa City, Iowa 52240.

"If You Try Sometime, You'll Get What You Need." Ain't I A Woman?,  
22 June 1973, p. [1]. Archives of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com  
%2Fapps%2Fdoc%2FUPKBFR711073951%2FAHSI%3Fu%3Dclemsonu_main%26sid%3Dbookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.