Ain't I A Woman?

25¢

erat 44

22

° Ceeh oe
Volume? Number 5

Lf

Ra

RTS SS ter
WEISER

¢

ALAW C

Wi
\ \\ \
ANY

8

y=
Se

Sy WU

TS ‘ .

thie
1973

Zz

¥
July 20

.

SSN NY
Ses
SSS

oi
Pe SS

SS
vate
xa
S

Py Paher M
Towa City, Iowa

Ten out of thirteen pregnancies

caught my mother's womb

at 18 tender years,

And gave her no rest until they took it away
at 39 tired ones, so she could keep working.
I lost,

Nine lives that she survives

in debt, deeper every year,

and in poor health—

make no mistake about that POOR health.

She gave up what could have been an easier life,
the single life,

for a place in Heaven, and one fucker.

That lost single-ness

and the color of her skin

could have cushioned her after a hard childhood.
But she gave up the first,

in fact, saw no choice... She says:
And in her world the second was the Rule, "And Grandpa is old before his time.
she could eat, marry, and live in her town, He's sixty-two and it's like he's eighty. 
and be oblivious to the oppression of others. They won't let him work outside anymore.

She's never realized a lot of her own. He's at a desk....shuffling papers,

and he's miserable, he feels useless.
And he's sick

She suffered and fought and cried. He can't even have a beer these days."
She sacrificed and rationalized and fell. What can I say to that painful news?

And she prayed. Grandpa's plight catches my throat,

not out of fear for myself, but him
AND SHE'S STILL PRAYING— and my mother, who's headed that way.

to earn salvation and mercy for her kids and husband, I only mouth a defense of our class,
whom she's condemned countless times. and she doesn't give a shit what I say.
Her older daughters don't believe, really— I realize that she'll defend her life,
and her young children could defect anytime. and fight to change mine.
I keep hoping, and God knows, I'VE TRIED. And she stubbornly plugs on:
"Get a job where you go to work from 9 to 5,
I was her first,
pay your debts, and get some security for the future
and so I'm told, the most trouble. don't kid yourself, things are getting rougher.
He always told me I was the worst, Like be a clerk in a store,
and I hate him, for check-out girls at Eagle's make $3.00 an hour."
So I tell her that carpenter's apprentices start higher,
and that men have all the job security,
even though all men don't.
My bones and bruises are healed. And I live in another town, besides.
I also won the last fight I had with him.
My mother wants me to make it,

But my sister, fourth in line, is catching the shit, now. and still keep the ethics.
And I can't really ease her pain, but I will stay working-class,
just warn her and hope she fights back sometimes, and I won't have to try.

to ward off hope:
Listen to me, mom.
I love you,
but I love myself and our people, too—
and I don't mean the Mother Church,
or racist, sexist, club-wielding men.
You like music, dancing, and slapstick comics,
I do, too.
You want your kids to eat well,
wear adequate clothing

and be clean.

I never understood class by any name,

But I can see where my consciousness came from.
I resisted staying in the Working Class

until they ripped off my last buck,

and now I'm in debt, too,

without even a year's credit,

and certainly without grace.

My sisters haven't been led on,

and will not make my mistake.

So do I.
I am a feminist and a lesbian,
so my mother and I talk about class now. When I was younger
I thought she'd die if she ever found out about
my life and my politics.
and she sometimes makes bitter comments. Well, she's found out enough to tumble the cathedral,
those goddam prayers.
If I had a nickel for every rosary...
She often berates me because she thinks I pay my debts,
with no respect for anything or anybody.
Once I wanted to change my last name
to her first name.
It only embarrassed her. She says my brains
She didn't understand, and I can't explain.
Maybe I just wanted to get back at the old man. It's hard to get things going,

like the revolution.
It's hard enough to survive
without going crazy for good.
It beats me how women without friends make it.
I tell her I want to be a carpenter, in this world

She matters to me and my name hasn't changed.

or a printer or a mechanic— beats me where the money comes from

and all she can say is: unless it's from the top.
"You're not built for that kind of work. 
You think you're a Seem athlete? 
You just want a man's job, that's sick.
When you've got some talent and creativity 
you've got no business digging ditches." 
And when I say: "That's bullshit, and 
Grandpa works at Goodyear. If he can, 
so can I." 
I want to."

The following is an “Ain't I A Woman?” Message:

Lots of new plans and positions on where-it's-at, where-it-was, what-to-do, how-to-do-it, etc... are coming up in what some may call the women's movement. What we're all hearing is dialogue and arguments between women in our community and in other cities based on the subject matter of books and long essays. Basically, these are *Lesbian Nation* by lesbian Vi e Voice columnist and feminist Jill Johnston; *The First Sex* by Elizabeth Gould Davis; and *Mother Right: A New Feminist Theory* by Jane Alpert, a former Weather affiliate and political fugitive feminist. We have been trying to get information and other women's opinions about the issues created by these books, and mostly have been pretty confused and not often satisfied. Only recently it began to dawn that all these new issues are part of an academic haze parading as the going politics and correct direction for lesbians, feminists, and separatists. We have all been arguing and searching for arguments about lesbian nation, mother right, gynarchy, and matriarchy in the name of an idea, and are failing to examine the source and its cover.

*Ain't I A Woman?* has been concerned about finding out about all these new issues so that we could sort out what should be criticized and what should be pursued. We haven't been objectively interested, either; lots of things put us off. Talk and plans of lesbian farms, goddesses, breeding out men, emphasizing culture and art, glorifying motherhood, and other such things all leave some women out in the cold, with their needs consistently ignored. Most of these women are the same women that get fucked over by the racist, male class system consistently. We are some of those women, and that's where we're at.

We hear about lesbians being pitted against each other over the presence of a male transsexual at their conference (or somebody's conference), and for sure some women are getting fucked over there, and incorrect lines plus repressive tactics means getting fucked over as much as a male presence does. Women called the Los Angeles conference a lot of things, including the birth of the lesbian nation, which seems presumptuous. What do conscious women expect, anyway, in the middle of a big university campus, under the close, opportunistic eye of the press and with Ronald Reagan's permission? Subversion, division, and exploitation are never accidents, and the state of California is never going to allow the birth of a revolution (which is what we need), let alone finance it and house it. Neither is Random House, Doubleday, Simon and Schuster, CBS, PBS, the Washington Post, or *Ms.* magazine.

We hear about lesbians who have enough money, property, and credit starting to buy land for rural communes and calling themselves "nations," as if the fight has already been won and there is all this "free land" for "free people." How the fuck do women who are, for the most part, naive city-dwellers, dependent on urban services and the labor of other human beings, expect to handle droughts, insects, flooded fields, and all the other trials and labors of a farmer? With hired hands? Servants? How do these women, even if they learn modern methods and get all that expensive machinery, survive in the face of agribusiness and Nixon's economy? Farmers who are not big-money guys get their crops in and their animals to market with the help of other farmers and sharing equipment. And they suffer harder losses every year until they sell, against their will. There aren't going to be any bunches of lesbians next door, and primitive agriculture will not suffice. Not since the Industrial Revolution has this been possible, and not without the deaths of six billion human beings could it ever be done again, especially considering all the healing this planet needs. Short-sighted separatists determined not to relate to men would die quickly (unless supported by those of us "sell-outs" who have to work for a living), though true to their principles, in rural America. The grain elevators, railroads, stockyards, service co-ops, and markets are all owned and controlled by pig, capitalist men. And certainly these women would be forced to defend "their" land and lifestyles against the rural people (who become the police when they are threatened) because isolating oneself totally from oppression can only be achieved by suicide.

Dear women and sisters, I never admitted how much hatred there was there (at school), never admitted my struggle as beginning class. I saw how nice it was being with gay women that the worst when I left. I just wanted to write you to tell you how important *Ain't I A Woman* has been to me. When I first started subscribing, I was in a small women's college in rural New York, had never met or read a lesbian woman, and was having an incredibly difficult time accepting my own gayness though I'd been gay my whole life. Not only did *Ain't I A Woman* put me in touch with anger and sense of oppression, but more than anything else I read clear headedness, working things out, a sense of commitment, community, joy, even love. That was important, for besides finally admitting and getting in touch with pain and anger, it gave me something to move towards - yes, some lesbians are really, really getting it together - and that gave me courage. I was so, so afraid of moving, but I began to dream of moving out and helping you write the paper, and in the meantime I came out as the only open lesbian on campus. I faced great hostility, rejection, denial, sex objectification, and built some tenuous, mistrustful relationships with some closeted women who came to me.

I lay awake nights, amazed by what you said, scared I could never be the kind of revolutionary I knew I had to be. You gave me a handle on the revolution, a way I could grab it, grapple with it, use it. I'm in an eastern city now. It's so much hatred there and such security, and I hadn't realized that though the struggle seems past, there are so many gay women here, organizing, talking, and action.

At first, I felt intimidated - that the reason I was more restless was that they'd already been through solidarity, that the reason I felt the gay community was because I wasn't a part of it. That's partly true; there still is a need for the solidarity, real communication, and clarity of vision I see in your paper. I'm beginning to talk to women about that, to have the courage and initiative to gather a collective to go deeper than the comfortable place we've fought to put ourselves in.

I respect you for putting revolution in such a concrete form that I can really grapple with it. I respect you for not compromising what you say. I disagree with people who don't think your paper speaks to those new to feminism. I came to your paper as politically naive as any, and as scared, confused, and self-hating as any, and I saw the clarity of it, and it may have kept me awake nights, but thank god for that. With me at least your paper succeeds in that it helps me clarify directions and goals and stirs me to action. It shakes me up.

I've wanted to write to you a long time, but felt inadequate, inarticulate. Doing tae kwon do has helped me put my anger into good solid fighting and somehow that has helped the words flow. I think I would like to have a relationship with you, writing to and for you as my writing gets better if you want. You can do with this letter what's useful to you, publish it if you want.

I'd like your complete volumes #1 & 2. I've had some of those copies I think, but I keep giving them away to women sitting next to me on buses and so on...

Best of my hopes for you. With deep felt thanks and love,

Kathy

WOMEN'S  
COLLECTIVE HEALTH  

doctor to staff a clinic to  
serve women's health needs  
and to do abortions. We al-  
ready have place and equip-  
ment. Write the collective  
at 125 N. Gilbert, Iowa  

Issues & Services  

Ant | A Women:  
| subs-5.00  
Institutional subs-20.00  

group ie. Volumes #1  

overseas subs-12.00  

(Warichmot 43.00  

BULK:  
rates  

WA og-  
BAILAW? Sound 15¢ per copy  
bi QabVarice..  

AIAW? is on file...  

and is available  
at The 5 ; ~Quality:  
cee Women's History Archive Bell Ps Howell (  
2325 Oak St Prawer"£  
Berkeley, Ca- 9108 Wooster, Ohio  

au Women who need to talk  
or want info about ongoing  
activities in Iowa City can  
now talk to gay 9 by calling  
GERI at C45-4429 J  

On June 24 a New Orleans gay bar  
burned up, killing at least one woman  
and 28 men. Most survivors were in-  
jured. Ironically, this happened  
while many gay people in other cities  
celebrated Gay Pride Week.  

We feel the need to report this  

for two reasons: one, the mass media  
didn't always say it was a gay bar;  
two, it's a horrible manifestation of  
exploitive unconcern by gay bar own-  
ers. That bar was burned out in 18  

WOMEN'S |  
is too  

& MINUTES. It was on the 2nd floor;  
there was one door and 3 partly hidden  
windows, with a fire escape that  
didn't reach the ground. Yet, a fire  
marshal told the press it was in  
compliance with state fire codes. May-  
be it was arson. I think it was what  
a business provides for gay people  
a (fire map).  

All women are welcome  
to read their poetry  

AN ANTHOLOGY OF THE 1ST AND 2ND  
ANNUAL ALL WOMEN'S POETRY READINGS  
HELD IN IOWA CITY  

available April '73  

c/o Action Studies  

303 Jefferson Bldg.  
Iowa City, Iowa 52240  

the Lesbian Paper of Chicago  

4ya#3, institutions Fé:  
50¢ back issues; Free to  
Sisters in prison or  
hospital -  
Send W*) Lavender Woman  
restw SO  
23 W-  
Chicago, IL 60660  

mental  

Vol. II no 5  

| MEW,  
Rie 77  
Vag”  

Montana Feminist Newspaper  
From Madison, WIS-  

Sves  
$3.50/ YR.  
SEND TO:  
Whole Woman  
$36 E. Johnson  
MADISON Wis  
$3703  

— NEWS  

— REVIEWS  
— ANALYSIS  
— POETRY  

— GRAPHICS  

the  

INQUIRIES  

LESBIAN/FEMINIST NEWSPAPER  
$3.00 / 1 year sub.  

Box #8843  
S.E. Station  
Wash., D.C. 20003  

THE POLITICS OF HEALTH CARE  

is a 28-page bibliography with anno-  
tations on over 400 articles and  
books. Edited by 2 members (male)  
of Boston Medical Committee for  
Human Rights. 35¢ per copy; in  
bulk (150 or more) to movement groups,  
it's 17 1/2¢ per. Order from:  

NEW ENGLAND FREE PRESS  

791 Tremont St.  

Boston, Mass. 02118  

the second wave  
Box 344, Cambridge A Vol. 2, No. 4  
Cambridge, MA 02139  

ROBIN MORGAN'S SPEECH  
NATURAL BIRTH CONTROL  
a talk with PHYLLIS CHESLER  
notes of a RADICAL  
TRANSSEXUAL  
plus poetry, reviews & more  
$3 for a year sub (4 issues). Start my sub  
with issue no.  
——~$.75 + $.25 postage for 1 copy of issue no.  
“add $.50 outside of USA; $4.50 airmail overseas  
25% discount on 10 or more orders  

Ain't I A Woman?

"Ain't A Woman?" Ain't A Woman?, 20 July 1973, pp. [1]+. Archives of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/ITMZBT182587746/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.