25 cents

. see page  
for answer see page 13. . . WOMEN, CHILDREN AND IDIOTS--A LAWYER'S VIEW OF  
WOMEN'S RIGHTS . ... see page 8. . . INDIAN SISTER SPEAKS FROM PRISON...

see page 4. . . LIBERALIZED ABORTION DECISION . . . page 1. . . BIG MAMA SEZ DON'T  
COUNT YOUR CHICKENS. .. same page.

jpuLAnOfL S,UIUIOAA S,AZAUIG

supreme

On January 22 the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 7-2 that in the first three months of pregnancy the decision of whether to have an abortion is between a woman and her doctor; in the next six months, the state may regulate the abortion procedure in ways that reasonably relate to maternal health. Only in the last 10 weeks may a state ban abortions except where they are necessary to preserve the woman's life or health.

The decision firmly recognizes a woman's right to control her own body as a part of her fundamental right to privacy, and was seen as a victory for the women's movement.

Not until March 5, however, did the Colorado Supreme Court, basing its ruling on the January decision, strike down the state abortion law's restrictions as unconstitutional. The Colorado law, which previously had been considered "liberal," contained certain "requirements" which the U.S. Supreme Court specifically stated were unconstitutional, namely, 1) that there be a residency requirement; 2) that abortions be performed in hospitals accredited by a private agency; 3) that applicants be screened by a hospital committee; or 4) that independent doctors certify the potential dangers of a pregnancy to a woman's physical or mental health.

In addition, the Colorado decision guaranteed the civil rights of those hospital employees who refuse to participate in abortion procedures by stating that such refusal may not be a basis for any disciplinary action against that employee. The decision also stated that any hospital can refuse to admit a patient for an abortion.

Denver citizens demonstrate at recent abortion rally.

According to members of the Mountain States Women's Abortion Coalition (MSWAC), which has been investigating the implementation of the new rulings in local hospitals, most hospitals are changing or have changed their procedures to comply with the ruling. Some of those hospitals providing abortions without restriction during the first trimester are General Rose, Beth Israel, Denver General, and Colorado General.

On March 12 the U.S. Supreme Court, ruling on the Illinois abortion law, and declaring it unconstitutional, concurrently issued an order that all state governments must comply with the original January decision and will no longer be allowed to procrastinate in creating new laws.

"One thing I'm worried about," said Nancy Stern, a lawyer for the Center for Constitutional Rights, commenting on the January 22 decision, "is that women will now say, ‘OK, it's all over. Now I can get an abortion if I want one and that's that.' But there's a real possibility that a state pressured by anti-abortion forces will pass abortion laws, under the guise of protecting a woman's health, which will actually succeed in restricting her right to an abortion."

BMIR Editorial

by Bourge Miller

“While the January 22 Supreme Court decision concerning abortion brought welcome and hard-fought-for relief to millions of Americans, concerned women must face the reality that the decision is not at all the total victory sought in the fight to control our own reproductive lives. Rather, it is only the first step, although a very meaningful one, in that direction. The ruling has removed many barriers, but has left or erected others.

Some painful issues still pending and some points to be vitally aware of are these:

1) The ruling places no restrictions on abortion during the first trimester, except the requirement that it be performed by a licensed physician. However, beginning with the second trimester, states are still free to regulate abortion procedures "in ways that are reasonably related to maternal health." Legislative action in this area must be carefully monitored to ensure continued protection of our rights.

2) The Supreme Court ruling makes no reference to the age at which a woman may obtain an abortion. Legislation will most certainly take place in this area. Must our younger sisters still face the red tape of parental or spousal consent? Do these women not also have the right to privacy as guaranteed by the Constitution?

3) Although the high court has just recently issued an additional order directing states to bring themselves into full compliance with the new ruling, it is clear that some state legislatures, state attorneys general, hospitals, etc. will most certainly attempt to impede the implementation of the decision. Those in the abortion rights movement must continue to press for speedy implementation of the ruling until all have complied.

4) "Right-to-Life" forces have responded to the ruling with moralistic indignation and irrelevant appeals to emotionalism that do not deal with the constitutional issues at hand. They have also introduced two bills into Congress (See page 8 - this issue).

5) It is extremely important to note that the ruling leaves open a possibility of the passage of total repeal legislation either on the state or federal level. The abortion rights movement should press for the passage of the Abortion Rights Act of 1973 which would take the question of abortion out of the state criminal codes altogether.

With the above highlights of still existing problems in mind, it should be clear that the battle women have been fighting to gain full control of their own reproductive lives is far from over. Much still needs to be done to protect and ensure these rights for all women. The abortion movement is and will continue to be challenged on all fronts and at all levels. That challenge must be met with even greater efforts and determination than before.

Bourge Miller has been involved in the abortion movement for a year and a half. She was at one time active with MSWAC, and is vitally concerned with women's right to control their own bodies.

ease

P.2. Since we last came to you, we
on the staff of BMR have under-
gone several changes. Some of
our members have gone, and new
women have joined us. The major-
ity of us were undergoing some
sort of personal upheaval or
other, and for a while the paper
seemed to have a low priority
for most of us. Couple that
with the organizational problems
of any new project-oriented
group, and you have it; we were
getting bogged down.

We seemed to rally, however,
around the issue of our group
process. This carries a lot of
significance for us, because we
are determined to carry sister-
hood into the interactions of
our work group. The usual hier-
archy we confront in our jobs
and society as a whole disgusts
us — no person's potential is
highly utilized when orders are
handed down from the top. We
each see a lot of ourselves in
the paper, so there is an abun-
dance of creativity to tap. We
have struggled to find ways to
bring out each woman's unique
contribution.

The first major structural
decision we made was to split in-
to task groups: Ads & Distribu-
tion, Journalism, Photos & Graph-
ics, Layout and Communications.
In these smaller groups, we have
started seeking procedures which

will facilitate our interaction.
Some methods we have adopted
are choosing a woman by lot at
the beginning of one meeting to
chair the next so that she can
prepare an agenda and assure
continuity and follow-through of
our efforts, and choosing a
Process Observer, also by lot at
the beginning of each meeting,
to facilitate our evaluation of
our interaction. Interwoven
into these efforts is our own
commitment to each other, to
hear and to speak and to respond
to one another's feelings.

At present, it would be safe
to say that none of us is totally
satisfied with BIG MAMA RAG. We
continue to be excited about the
possibilities for Denver's first
women's journal, however, and we
have batted around numerous pro-
posals for upgrading BMR.

We are investigating means of
improving our appearance so that
we will have a more appealing for-
mat. We want to go to smaller
print throughout so that we can
widen the scope of our information
and carry more news — national,
local, international — and more
investigative journalism. This
would involve expanding our
journalism group, specifically
with part-time experienced women
writers, and would also include
publishing more often.

We have expanded sufficiently
to require office space and the
supplies that go with it, but to
date we do not have the money to
obtain such a luxury. This is
another area we are investigating.

We have discussed many times
the question of who we want BMR
to reach. Although we intended
the paper as a forum for any
woman to speak, we must concede
that through our choice of arti-
cles, we make the paper more than
a forum. We know that a woman
who has decided conclusively

where we’re at

against the liberation movement
will never open BMR, and we are

not missionaries trying to

change her.

But we do want to speak to
women who are beginning to feel
anger about the roles assigned
to them, to women who are be-
ginning to reach out for a new
grasp on themselves and for a
new communication with other
women. There are a lot of these
women whom BIG MAMA is not
reaching, and we are open for
suggestions as to solving this
dilemma. One thing that would
help is to know who we are
reaching, so please let us know
who you are.

About the only editorial
policy we have begun using so
far is that, while constructive
criticism of one another and
the women's movement is welcome,
anything that is downright des-
tructive or damaging to sister-
hood will not be printed. Fur-
ther, we are trying to come up
with some guidelines to use to
upgrade the quality of our
writing in general.

We are a strong group of
women, and we have begun an ex-
citing project, a chance to ex-
press ourselves and provide
Denver women with an invaluable
communications network. But we
have limited time and limited
resources (all of us work full-
or part-time at other jobs to
support ourselves and families).

We want to hear from you, and
we feel an absence of response.
We want your suggestions and
reactions on format, content,
style, whatever — and to a
large degree, the evolving
quality of BIG MAMA RAG depends
on it.

S22 +t

Brim

Pottery

Be CLASSES

@ CLAY
@ SUPPLIES

(3 27498 4 Street
- BOULDER  YY3-6764

Big Mama Rag - Mailing

1000 E. 23rd,
Denver, CO 80203; or
IRS

address:
call Donna at 399-2149

ORR RK REE KE ORK SR NR KKK

BIG MAMA RAG is helping KFML radio
prepare a weekly series of "shorts"
about women. News or ideas to offer?
Call Yvonne Stith at 333-2176.

RTE SRK BK BR ES RR ELE. SE

printing notes......

Much as we appreciate

be SHORT-SHORT-SHORT. Strive
for a maximum of two double-

to publish but are too lengthy
to be included in full. Also -
if any of our readers would like
to mail us articles,
photos, and/or graphics, we
would appreciate it if you

would write a few words

about who you are so you can

be credited. Be kind to
yourself. All material can be
mailed to: The Big Mama Rag,
1000 E. 23rd, Denver, CO 80205,
or call Donna at 399-2149.

©9990 00H5 05995 908869808000088

BIG MAMA
STAFF

JOURNALISM

CONTACT: Jackie

573-5221 Linda,
Maureen, Libby,
Chocolate, Carolyn
ADVERTISING & DISTRIBUTION
CONTACT: Lynda 744-8451
Nancy, Glenda, Polly
COMMUNICATION

CONTACT: Betty 534-1087
Donna, Anne, Linda

LAYOUT - CONTACT: Elissa
377-7970 Joyce, Bourge
PHOTOS & GRAPHICS
Contact: Patty 744-1184
Jane, Connie

the Connection

The Connection, an infor-

mation, referral, and
counseling center located at
the corner of 18th and Clarkson,
has been in operation for two
and one-half years. A staff
of two women and two men is
available from 9-9 Monday
through Friday.

Four of our services may
be of special interest to
women. First, among our job
listings are some openings
especially created for women.
If you have a skill and are
seeking employment call us at
892-1812. Second, we know of a
number of excellent feminist
counselors, some of whom will
take referrals from us on a
sliding-scale basis. Third,
we specialize in child
advocacy. This involves
working with juvenile offenders
and assisting them with legal
hassles and group home place-
ments. Lastly, problem
pregnancy counseling which
consists first, of helping
women decide among the available
options. If she chooses to have
a therapeutic abortion, we
refer her to trusted physicians
either in Denver or out-of-state.
One of our female staff
members accompanies her to a
Denver hospital if she has no
one else to be with. We have
never been unable to arrange
a legal abortion for a woman
with financial problems.

```
2seaged cry

In the summer of 1970, Ana Lou Coelho and her four

children left Oakland, California, to go camping on the
Yuba River outside of Grass Valley in Nevada County,

California.

“It was beautiful and we all loved being on the earth
again,” Ana said. “I asked the children if they'd like to
stay — and they said yes, so after spending most of the
summer there, we moved up permanently in Septem-
ber, 1970. I had wanted to get out of Oakland, and get
the children out of the city — so it seemed like a very
good thing. We were all really happy up there. . .”

One year later — on September 25, 1971, life changed
drastically for Ana and her children — Linda, 11; Sheri,
10; Rhonda, 14; and Ronnie, 7. On that day, Ana was
charged with second degree murder and held without
bail in Nevada County Jail. Her children were sent to
stay with their grandmother. She was charged with
killing a man she didn't know in a barroom brawl. The
man was stabbed to death. Ana had been wearing a
hunting knife in the bar the night of his death.

An all-white Nevada County jury found Ana guilty on
December 10, 1971. Ana has three Apache grand-
parents, and one Chicano grandparent.

We met in mid-February, 1972, 25 days after she had
been sentenced to life and transferred to the California
State Institution for Women at Frontera. She was CIW
number 8811.

Ana, five feet tall, her shiny black hair tied in braids on
each side of her small olive face, looked about 17 years
old instead of 32. She wore a prison uniform covered
by a beige prison jacket about three times too big for
her. Her room, small and bare except for bed, toilet,
sink and desk, was decorated with pictures of her chil-
dren. It was obvious that they were as much the focus
of her life in that small barren room as they had been in
their home on the Yuba River.

“I've never been in jail before and to be plunked down
in prison is so heavy,” she said, her hands shaking as she
fixed coffee for both of us in a small automatic pot.
“At times I get so close to losing my mind; I think I just
can’t take it. I’m here for a crime I didn’t commit. I
guess if I wasn’t innocent it wouldn't be so hard, but I
just can’t accept that I'm really here for something I
didn’t do. All during the trial I was optimistic because
I didn’t see how they could find me guilty of something
I didn’t do. Plus... the D.A. had about 30 witnesses
and they told 30 different stories.

“The only thing they all agree to was that I had a knife

I admitted having. I had my hunting knife strapped on
my side, and somebody took it away from me when a
big fight broke out. It turned into a brawl — like a
free-for-all with 15 or 20 people involved. At this point
I was shoved back up against the jukebox. It was like a
football huddle only everyone was swinging, including
myself. It was during this time the man was stabbed. I
had never even seen him until the pictures of him were
shown at the trial. I didn’t even know anyone had been
stabbed until I heard someone yell, ‘Someone’s been
stabbed.’ The crowd had already dispersed, and we
were standing outside when the police came. I was
standing with this friend and someone told the police
officer, ‘Arrest them two because someone’s been
stabbed and either one of them did it.’ The officer told
me to get in the car, which I did.”

Ana said she was wearing the knife because she was
planning to join her children and another family on a
camping trip when she left the bar.

“I always wore Levis, tee-shirt, and a hunting knife on
these camping trips,” she said. “The knife I used pri-
marily in the preparation of meals, making sandwiches,
cutting watermelon or cantaloupe — just general camping
uses. I used it to help skin a rattlesnake once, but I had
a hard time as the knife wasn’t very sharp.”

During the trial, one pathologist testified that it would
take an incredible amount of strength to inflict the
wound — because it penetrated every muscle and tough
tendon and clipped the man’s backbone. He was
slashed from his chest to his waist. Ana, whose first
arrest came with the death, weighs less than 100
pounds. Testimony was contradictory — and even
Ana’s lawyer, David Kogus of San Francisco, couldn't
believe that the jury found her guilty with such scant
evidence.

Although Ana maintained hope for her freedom to the
very end, she knew the odds were against her, just be-
cause of her ethnic background and the attitudes to-
wards her which came out on the front pages of the
local paper and in the courtroom.

“The witnesses were so hostile. And the jury seemed
disinterested. One lady knitted through the whole trial
and another one addressed Christmas cards. I guess
they were hostile, too. I wasn’t an active member of
the community. We lived three or four blocks out of
town. We had made friends with a family with seven
children and apparently the community didn’t like them
so, they were hostile to me because of our association
with them. I didn’t know how unpopular they were
until the trial. It was also against me that I’ve been
divorced six years and I was on AFDC (welfare). All
kinds of negative points. Witnesses said they heard me
arguing and saying things in Mexican or Spanish, but I
can't neither speak Mexican nor Spanish, so whatever I
said was in English! It didn't matter to them that I
had been past president of the PTA in Alameda, or

active with the drug abuse council and the Alameda
City Council. None of these things were brought up in
the trial. They said I was on welfare, but they didn’t
say that I had been working with the social worker and
he was putting me on job training. I wanted clerical or
secretarial work, although I'd like to teach roller-ska-
ting. (Ana took third place in the National Roller
Skating Meet in 1956 in Richmond, Virginia, represent-
ing the Bay Area and California.)

“The jury was unbelievable,” her attorney said.

“They were so hostile to her; it was apparent from the
first. Ana was disliked in the area because she was close
to people in a motorcycle gang who had moved to Grass
Valley and terrorized the people. It's a conservative,
white, older community of people who had moved out
to Grass Valley to escape the cities themselves. I was
used to San Francisco juries, and I didn’t anticipate or
see what a small-time jury would be like. Ana had asked
me to get a change of venue and she was right, I should
have listened to her. I’ve been living with this case now
and it’s really rough. Ana has beautiful children, and
comes from a fine family. I feel so strongly about it I
don’t think I'd go back to Nevada County for another
trial.

Dear Mom,

I hope you can get here for

must be mean to keep

you in peace.

Ronnie,

“There were allegedly two eyewitnesses, but they didn’t
seem like much to me. And I don’t think they’re worth
much ...so I would expect that eventually we'll get her
out on appeal. I’m confident we'll get her a new trial.
I just don’t know whether they’ll cut her loose or not.
I don’t know... I can only hope.

“I went to New York to talk to the guy who really did
it. But he’s too scared — he’s on parole — and not will-
ing to confess to anything, let alone open his mouth, ..
so that’s not much help.”

“When I first got here,” Ana said, “I didn’t know any-
thing. Like the first day I went back to my room and it
was locked — I went up to the control desk and asked

if I could have a key to my door. She just looked at me
and said, ‘No, we don’t give keys.’ I said, ‘Well, how do
I get in?’ ‘Just tell us and we'll pop your door,’ the
officer said. I was so scared and ignorant of what I
could and couldn't do, I just stayed in my room that
first week and went so close to going out of my mind —
I was dangerously close to it. I knew I couldn’t stay.
But then I found out we could go out in the yard — plus
I found a copy of the rules and read them and knew
more what was going on.

“It's so hard to write to my kids — there’s nothing to
write but bad things. All I can tell them is someday
justice will be done. Ronnie said, ‘Those people must
be mean to keep you there,’ and I just told him, ‘They
can’t help it — they’re doing what the court ordered
them to do. It’s hard for them to understand — I'm
innocent, yet I’m being punished for it. It's hard for
me to understand too — and I guess I never will accept
it. God knows I am innocent — and if I can just main-
tain my sanity, someday justice will be done. It has to
be. I can’t stand not being with my children.”

(This article is excerpted from a book Kitsi Burkhardt
is writing on women in prison, to be published by
Doubleday in March, 1973. Permission to reprint
should be obtained from the author. We are grateful
to Off Our Backs, a paper for women’s liberation, for
calling Ana Coelho’s situation to our attention.)

and lawyers,

ana’s srs iter a cry for help a cry for help

My name is Ana Lou Coelho #8811, my
story appeared in your April 1972, Volume II,
Number 8 edition of Off Our Backs.

On the 25th of this month it will be one
year that I have been unjustly incarcerated
for a crime which I DID NOT COMMIT!

I did not receive a fair trial and it
took the jury less than 15 minutes to reach a
guilty verdict. The charge is 2nd degree mur-
der. My conscience is clear and in my heart
I know that I am not guilty of this crime, but
that is of little help as long as I am being
held prisoner of the State of California. My
appeal was heard on August 15th in Sacramento,
California.

What I need is financial help, from any-
one who is willing to contribute. I need
enough money to cover an Appeal Bond, so that
I can be cut loose. The Cut Ana Loose Fund
(C.A.L.F.) has been set up by my mom, but so
far it hasn't been too successful, therefore
I am asking anyone and everyone who is able
and who cares to please donate whatever you
can to the fund. Donations may be sent dir-
ectly to my mom: Rose Spanyard, 1557 79th
Ave. Oakland, California, 94621.

I'm sure that there are other counties,
like Nevada County, in which there is no
justice and its theme song should be “I've
Been Working on the Railroad.” These coun-
ties should be exposed for what they are doing
to innocent people. Everyone, including the
jury, judge, D.A., police and Public Defender
are either related or know each
other very well. And it doesn't matter whether
you are guilty or not, if they want to prose-
cute you they will do it and especially if you
are unliked and not white and an outsider.

For these three reasons and only for these
three reasons, I am a prisoner of the State
in the only Women's Prison in California.

I am asking for your help and anything
you can do will be deeply appreciated by me
and my family.

Thank You Sincerely,

Ana Coelho #8811

Frontera, California

91720
P.S. I wish to express my thanks for all the
letters I have received from all of you out
there who expressed your sympathy, offered
advice and offered to help. You are really
beautiful people.
```

BMR  
hook review  

Carolyn Agosta ff  

DIALECTIC OF SEX, by  
Shulamith Firestone  

Shulamith Firestone was born  
in Ottawa, Canada. She attended  
several universities in  
the U.S. and earned a Bachelor  
of Fine Arts in Painting.  

She is presently editor of  
"Notes," a journal of radical  
feminism.  

In Dialectic of Sex, Ms.  
Firestone presents a clear  
idea of the women's movement.  
She replaces the myths and  
fears surrounding feminism with  
reasoning and understanding.  
She brings an awareness of the  
way in which each of us is  
being destroyed by our society.  
Further, she explains how  
women and men can only  
develop half of themselves at  
the expense of the other half.  
The myth has always been that  
the two sexes complement each  
other's abilities and personality.  
But women and men are  
whole complete beings within  
themselves. So what part of  
our roles is a result of  
socializing and what part is  
biological? Or is any of it  
biological? Or is all of it  
socializing?  

The love-myth is destroyed  
in Ms. Firestone's explanation  
of the selfishness involved in  
a relationship...possessiveness,  
envy, jealousy, the obvious  
importance of physical beauty  
(make-up, clothes, hair.) The  
games we play; she bolstering  
his ego, he "protecting" and  
"defending" her, way up there  
on her pedestal; she being  
"delicate" and "feminine;" he  
being “strong" and a "real  
man."  

In relating feminism and  
Freud, Ms. Firestone points  
out Freud's greatest  
failing, that of questioning  
the individual, rather than  
society as a whole as the cause  
for so-called "maladjustment."  
‘Feminism and Freudianism  
arose at about the same period  
of time; but Freud was  
accepted as the "lesser of two  
evils," even though his  
theory is full of contradictions.  

Shulamith Firestone  
discusses and breaks down the  
entire theory of the family  
structure: father as breadwinner,  
mother as nursemaid  
and somewhat dependent upon  
the father, and "children,"  
hopelessly dependent upon  
mother and father.  

This book is recommended to  
anyone feeling and seeing the  
oppression of our society,  
whether woman, man, black,  
red, yellow, white.  

Next hearing date in ESTHER GOOD-  
YEAR vs. GATES RUBBER is March 28 at  
8:30 a.m. in Judge Finesilver's  

court on 2nd floor of courthouse at  
19th and Stout. Supportive women  
please attend.  

(CPS) At the end of 1972, suppor-  
ters of the Equal Rights Amendment  
(ERA) felt certain of imminent vic-  
tory. Now, three months later,  
massive anti-Equal Rights Amendment  
forces (Stop the ERA) have organized  
in an effort which puts easy and  
immediate ratification of the 26th  
Amendment in serious doubt.  

Early last year, Congress passed  
the Equal Rights Amendment, which  
would outlaw all forms of sex dis-  
crimination that are based on law  
or governmental action. It is nec-  
essary for 38 state legislatures to  
ratify the amendment. To date, 28  
states have ratified the ERA, 11  
have defeated it, leaving 11 states  
undecided. Ten of those 11 states  
must ratify the ERA for it to pass  
this year.  

Opponents of the Equal Rights  
Amendment make two main objections  
to its ratification. They claim  
that passage of the ERA would make  
women eligible for the draft, and  
that it would release men from their  
obligations to support a family.  

Jacqueline G. Gutwillig, chair-  
woman of the Citizen's Advisory  
Council on the Status of Women,  
labelled opponents' arguments irrele-  
vant. She commented that if a  
draft is reactivated, "It would  
only be in a serious national emer-  
gency that would undoubtedly expose  
women to dangers as great as combat--  
and most women would want to defend  
their country in such circumstances."  

As for the opponents' second ar-  
gument, releasing men from financial  
responsibility of their family,  
Gutwillig explained that a court  
never intervenes in a stable family  
situation. Therefore, families  
would continue to make individual  
and personal decisions affecting the  
their lives. In cases of separation  
or divorce, according to Gutwillig,  
the court would take into considera-  
tion the economic situations of both  
husband and wife before granting any  
financial settlements.  

As organized opposition grows  
stronger, supporters of the ERA ner-  
vously turn to a grassroots cam-  
paign in the remaining states in  
order to ensure a ratification, al-  
though undoubtedly a very narrow  
one, of the amendment which will fi-  

nally give women equal rights under  
law.  

Women in Colorado, which has al-  
ready ratified the ERA, who are in-  
terested in supporting its ratifica-  
tion in other states should send do-  
nations to: NOW Emergency Fund,  

P.O. Box 4514, Church Street Station,  
New York, New York 10249.  

Women’s Rights  

Colorado Cases  

JANET BONNEMA vs.  
STATE HIGHWAY DEPT.  

Charge: A job appointment  
was revoked when sex of appli-  
cant was learned, even though  
she was the most qualified appli-  
cant. State Court settlement  
reinstated her at job at  
Straight Creek Tunnel with back  
pay. Federal Court settlement  
awarded her attorney fees,  
$6750 cash settlement, and per-  
mission to do job-related  
duties formerly denied because  
of sex. Sandra Rothenberg was  
attorney for this case, con-  
sidered a landmark in the U.S.  
for breaking down ancient pre-  
judice against women in mines  
or tunnels.  

MARIANNE TAYLOR vs.  
MOUNTAIN ELECTRIC COMPANY  

Charge: Discharge and re-  
placement by a man, even though  
work was satisfactory. Ms.  
Taylor lost case, largely be-  
cause it was a fairly old case  
and witnesses were difficult to  
produce.  

PATTY HODGINS vs.  
BOULDER DAILY CAMERA  

Charges: Job discrimination  
on basis of sex, particularly  
in work assignment. Hearing  
Examiner did find that the  
Camera had committed sex dis-  
crimination, but not against  
Ms. Hodgins.  

MAUREEN TESLER vs.  
COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT 12  

Charges: Discharge due to  
pregnancy, and discrimination  
based on religious creed.  
Hearing Examiner found in her  
favor. Commissioners haven't  
rendered a decision.  

JUNE FIELD vs.  
MONTROSE SCHOOL BOARD  

Charges: Employment as busi-  
ness teacher denied because her  
husband was already employed by  
the district and because dis-  

trict wanted business teacher to  
be part-time coach. Case in  

progress.  

VALERY McALLISTER vs.  
DEPT. OF JUVENILE PAROLE  

Charge: Discharge on basis  
of sex. Discrimination in job  
assignment on basis of sex.  
State District Court found in  
her favor, but Parole has  
attempted to reverse decision.  

(Above information from Eleanor  
Crow of Co. Civil Rights Comm.)

All witchcraft comes from carnal  
lust, which in women is insatiable...  
Wherefore for the sake of fulfilling  
their lusts they consort with devils.  
It is sufficiently clear that it  
is no matter for wonder that there  
are more women than men found in-  
fected with the heresy of witch-  
craft... And blessed be the Higher  
Who has so far preserved the male  
sex from so great a crime...  
(Malleus Maleficarum)  

It's not nice to fool Mother Nature!  
(Chiffon Margarine ad)  
ST a ES  

I've always thought that the appear-  
ances of W.I.T.C.H. (Women's Inter-  
national Terrorist Conspiracy From  
Hell) was one of the cleverer early  
WLM yippie tactics. And since like  
many of my sisters I'm curious about  
witches, I decided to do a little  
research on the history of women  
and witchcraft for this month's issue  
of Big Mama Rag. One place to start  
such a search is with the late medie-  
val witch craze.  

The European witch craze was start-  
ling in its dimensions. Starting in  
Germany, Italy and other countries  
in the 14th century, it spread to  
France and England in the 16th cen-  
tury. Thousands upon thousands of  
people were killed—usually burned at  
the stake. One writer estimated that  
in certain German cities, there were  
an average of six hundred "witches"  
put to death a year. "Nine hundred  
witches were destroyed in a single  
year in the Wertzberg area, and a  
thousand in and around Como. At  
Toulouse four hundred were put to  
death in a day. In the Bishopric  

of Trier, in 1585, two villages  
were left with only one female in-  
habitant each." And this mass  
hysteria was no delusion of the un-  
educated poor. Belief in witches  
was nearly universal, even among  

the emerging scientific community.  
Most important, it had the active  
support of the all-powerful Church,  

“as insanity or dreams”  

If it is true as some have suggested,  
that witchcraft represented surfac-  
ing of an older pre-Christian cult in  
which women played a major role, you  
would expect the Church to feel very  
threatened by it. Oddly enough the  
Church had through most of its his-  
tory officially considered the tra-  
ditional powers of witches—casting  

spells, turning themselves into ani-  
mals and so on—as the products of  
insanity or dreams. What changed  
the Church's mind is not clear. We  
do know that by the end of the 14th  
century pressures that would lead  

to the Reformation were mounting.  
For whatever reason, by the 15th  

century, the Church had decided that  

witchcraft was a threat to orthodoxy.  
By the end of the century the Pope,  
Innocent VIII, was issuing papal  
bulls, empowering his representa-  
tives to try witches.  

One of his representatives, Jacob  
Springer and Heinrick Kramer, sent  
to try witches in Germany, produced  
Christendom's guide on the theory  
and identification of witches, Mal-  
leus Maleficarum or Hammer of Witches.  
As you can see from the passage  
quoted at the beginning of this  
article, these two were obsessed with  
the witch's sexuality, especially  
the sexuality of the female witches.  
(Was celibacy getting to them?)  

The book also noted witches’ healing  
powers and warned of their knowledge  
of contraception and abortion proce-  
dures.  

"changing men into beasts"  
"Now there are, as it is said in the  
Papal Bull, seven methods by which  
they infect with witchcraft the  
venereal act and the conception of  
the womb: First, by inclining the  
minds of men to inordinate passion;  
second, by obstructing their genera-  
tive force; third, by removing the  
members accommodated to that act;  
fourth, by changing men into beasts  
by their magic act; fifth, by de-  
stroying the generative force in  
women; sixth, by procuring abortion;  
seventh, by offering children to the  
devils, besides other animals and  
the fruits of the earth with which  
they work harm."  

Terrifying as these powers were, I  
wonder if women saw all of them in  
quite the same evil light that the  
two priests did.  

The persecution of witches in this  
country has a short and a somewhat  
less sordid history. The first  

witchcraft trial in the English colo-  

nies for which we have records, oc-  
curred in Windsor, Connecticut in  
1647. During the next fifty years,  
there were a total of about one  
hundred cases out of which thirty-  
eight persons were convicted and  
hanged (not burned). The notorious  
Salem witch trials were different  
from the earlier ones. Occurring at  
the tail end of the witch craze in  
Europe they were examples not of  
isolated accusations and trials, but  
of mass hysteria in a backwater New  
England village. Early in 1692, a  
group of girls age 9 through 19  
accused a woman slave, Tituba, and  
two elderly poor women of having  
bewitched them, causing them to jerk  
and shriek. The slave was beaten in-  
to confession by her master. Those  
accused began to implicate others  
and confess to broomstick rides,  
witches' sabbaths, copulation with  
the devil and so on. By May when  
the governor arrived from Boston,  
several dozen accused witches were  
awaiting trial. The governor ap-  

pointed a special court of laymen  
to try the accused.  

‘overwhelming’ evidence  

Records still exist of those trials.  
Take for example, the trial of one  
Susanna Martin. The evidence against  
Mistress Martin was overwhelming.  

Her fellow townsman, Bernard Eache,  
testified that:  

"...being in bed on a Lord's Day  
night, he heard a scrambling at the  
window, whereat he then saw Susan-  
na Martin come in and jump down upon  
the floor. She took hold of this  
deponent's feet, and drawing his body  
up unto a heap, she lay upon him  
near two hours; in all which time he  
could neither speak nor stir."  

Another Salem resident, Robert Dow-  
ner, accused Mistress Martin of witch-  
craft and the following night:  

“as he lay in his bed, there came  
in at the window the likeness of a  
cat, which flew upon him, took  
fast hold of his throat, lay on him  
a considerable while, and almost  
killed him."  

And one William Brown further testi-  
fied that Susanna often appeared  
to his wife:  

"giving her no little trouble;  
and when she did come, she was  
visited with birds that sorely  
pecked and pricked her; and some-  
times a bunch, like a pullet's egg,  
would rise in her throat, ready to  
choke her..."  

Traditional witch's powers with sexu-  
al overtones. Susanna, as you might  
expect, was found guilty and exe-  
cuted. When the Salem court ad-  
journed, some nineteen or twenty  
persons, mostly women, and two dogs,  
sex unclear, had been hanged.  

Why always women?  

The events in Salem Village have been  
attributed to any number of causes,  
"exhibitionism natural to young  
girls," the evils of Puritanism,  
the sociology of a small back-  
water village. But the question  

that interests me is not why witch-  
craft crazes, but why, throughout  
Western history, have the accused  
usually been women?  

To answer that question we have to go  
back, long before the Christian era.  
It is as if men have always seen  
women as a split person. From the  
earliest pre-history when the ferti-  
lity goddess was divided into the  
beneficent great mother and the  

dark, sexually dangerous earth mo-

SISTER

Polly Pavek

Two months ago I discovered  
that I love to sing. I have  
been singing for many years;  
when I'm alone, in the bath-  
tub, washing dishes, riding  
in the car, and sometimes I  
sing with friends. I used to  
sing only folk songs, but in  
my recent discovery I  
started to explore rock 'n  
roll, and I try to sing along with  
Aretha, or Bonnie Bramlett,  
Laura Nyro, Carole King,  
Bonnie Raitt, Merry Clayton,  
or Rita Coolidge. These  
women sing about themselves  
(ourselves) with such energy  
in their voices, and strength  
in their souls that they  
have fully converted me to  
singing my own soul. I have  
expanded my singing territory  
from the bathtub, kitchen  
sink, and moving car to the  
sidewalks, the city park, my  
job, and as far as an actual  
live microphone. The less shy  
and fearful I am of public  
places hearing my voice, the  
less fearful I am of myself,  
and I feel like I'm breaking a  
link of the patriarchal chain  
that keeps me from my own free-  
dom.

Now that I enjoy singing so  
much, I want to do something  
with it. I have gone to many  
auditions and met quite a few  
people. Every group I've  
visited has been dominated by  
men, whether they sing folk or  
cock rock. I've met three  
women and about fifteen men at  
various auditions. I also  
discovered that the majority  
of vocal try-outs for rock 'n  
roll bands have been men.

I've wondered about the minor-  
ity of women dealing with  
popular music: is it because  
women hate cock rock, or  
that we can't sing, or that  
we can sing but are too shy in  
the mask of Eve to assert  
ourselves? Personally, I  
despise cock rock and refuse  
to sing or listen to it (which  
presents many problems).  
Luckily I can sing, and I am  
bored hiding out in the bath-  
tub.

One of the three women I  
met was fired from the group  
she had been with because  
she wouldn't cut her hair in  
a shag style, nor wear tinted  
glasses and batty eyelashes.  
The second woman looked like  
Janis Joplin and sang a lot  
of cock 'n roll which pleased  
all the men in the band. The  
third woman is a very versatile  
musician who left a group  
after a month of their pelvic  

SING

ego trips. God's death:  
Why do we have to be subjugated  
by electric penises that glory  
in the enslavement of women?

I want to sing with good,  
rhythmic music that comes  
from my womanly soul. I am  
trying to move forward as a  
singer and as a woman; I'm  
practicing and strengthening  
my voice, and just about  
praying that I'll find some  
musicians who won't oppress  
me.

The only people I know  
who don't oppress me are my  
sisters. Yes, I want to sing  
with my sisters. I just drool  
at the image of being on  
stage with women, good music,  
and a happy audience before  
us. I smile with deep pleasure  
as my fantasy grows and there  
are only women on stage at  
Mr. Lucky's and all the women  
working there, who are  
pushed into hot pants by the  
management and eagle-eyed by  
the many heavy-set, American  
flagged bouncers, join them  
and are freed from the ass-  
pinching customers, and then:  
all those women go over to  
the Warehouse and tear down  
all those pictures on the walls,  
because every one of those  
drawings or paintings are of  
nude women. And who knows,  
Tricky Dicky's might even be  
invaded!

Oh, I'm tired of the bathtub,  
it depresses me. I'm sick of  
loud cock rock, it's trying to  
kill me. I want to sing and  
be heard. I know that there  

are many women in Denver who  
can sing, and many women who  
are good musicians. The  

men dominating the music  

world will only allow our songs  
and creativity to develop to  

a limited point where we  
threaten them with real and  
better music, and they will try  
to stop us. Boycott them!

And let's get ourselves together.

"Polly Pavek has lived in  
Colorado all her life. She  

is new to music and would  
welcome communication from  
other women who share her  
interest. Call her at 433-1240.

C. Rogers

ther, men have been unable to form  
a truly human picture of women.  
Mother Nature is good; she gives  
men life and the means to keep on  
living. But embedded in this ability  
is tremendous uncontrolled (by men)  
power. The Good Mother Nature can  
become Pandora, Eve, "The unsealer  
of the forbidden trees, the devil's  
gateway." Long after witchcraft  
had ceased to occupy Americans,  

the split image of women continued  
to haunt us. In the last century,  
Woman was either the sexless angel  
or the depraved but exciting cour-  
tesan. A favorite device of Ameri-  
can novelists for two hundred  
years has been the juxtaposition  

of the snow maiden and the dark  
lady. Nathaniel Hawthorne, author  
of the Scarlet Letter, is typical  

in his use of the contrasting  
images. In his Blithedale Romance  
he juxtaposed the dark-haired, sen-  
sual Zenobia (probably modeled on  
Margaret Fuller, an early feminist)  
and the frail blond Priscilla,  

who is Philip Wylie's or Philip  
Roth's "Mom" if not the dangerous  
woman in a new guise, emasculating  
her male children as did the "vagina  
dentata" - the vagina with teeth -  

of earlier myths. Woman is the  
incomprehensible "Other," angel-  
ically good or diabolically evil.  
(When she was good, she was very  
very good...)  

©0000000000000000000 0000020000000 0CSS  
What's A Nice Girl Like You  
Doing" April 25, 26, 27, 28  
A Feminist Conference at  
Colorado State University  

Women's Voice  

The Woman's Voice bookstore  
needs the support of all  
sisters. By narrowing the  
market to feminists, the store  
has made itself a specialist  
bookstore. The Woman's  
Voice is in trouble if there  
is not more support by the  
public.  

Any requests for special  
books are welcomed by the  
bookstore. The management  
appreciates any help in loca-  
ting new material by feminists,  
or of interest to women. It  
is very difficult to keep  
aware of all the new material  
published on women and the  
women's movement. Please help  
the bookstore serve you better.  
Your support is greatly appre-  
ciated.  

What is it about us that men find  
so infathomable? "I just can’t  
understand women!" How often have  
we heard that one? Isn't it too  
bad we can't just be ordinary human  
beings? It would all be so much  

NEXT ISSUE: Watch for a history  
of the Women's Liberation Move-  
ment in Denver by Karen Kordisch.  

BIG MAMA RAG ORDER FORM  

Mail to: BIG MAMA RAG SUBSCRIPTIONS  

1635 Downing  
Denver, Colorado 80218  

Enclosed is $5.00 for a year's subscription.  
Enclosed is 40¢ (25¢ per copy plus 15¢ per  
copy postage and handling) each for copies  
of the (which?) issue, or a total of Sacco.  

Please send the above to:  

Name  

Street Address Apt.  

City State  

Zip  

I would like to contribute time and energy to  
BIG MAMA RAG. Contact me at (phone).  

(You are we and we are you.)  

Witchcrazed Massacres = cont'd. from 4.5.  

2819 EAST 2ND AVENUE  
DENVER, COLORADO 80206  
OFFICE (303) 399-1980  
RESIDENCE (303) 377-0429  

Mon.-Thurs, 10-7  

I must admit, though, I  
am at times envious of the witch's  
traditional powers, and don't you  
enjoy the way the thunder roars  
and the lightning cracks when  
Mother Nature's butter turns out to  
be margarine?  

In this article, I have made exten-  
sive use of a very interesting new  
pamphlet by Barbara Ehrenreich and  
Deirdre English, "Witches, Midwives,  
and Nurses: A History of Women  
Healers." It is available at the new  
women's bookstore, The Woman's  
Voice, 673 South Pearl. I have also  
relied on papers written by two of  
my women's history students, Judy  
Matchett's "Momism: From Philip  
Wylie to Philip Roth" and Dorothy  
Kiernan's, "Witchcraft: The Role  

of Women in the Witch Craze of the  
16th and 17th Centuries." Margaret  
Murray in her The God of the Witches  
discusses European witchcraft as  

an ancient, indigenous cult. Norman  
Cohn in The Pursuit of the Millen-  
nium discusses the bizarre sects  

of Medieval Europe. Malleus Male-  
ficarum is in paper. There are  
many histories of witchcraft in the  
English colonies including among  

the most recent, Marion L. Starkey's  
The Devil in Massachusetts and  
Chadwick Hansen, Witchcraft at  
Salem. The theme of the evil  

woman is explained in detail in H.R.  
Hay's The Dangerous Sex. Last, the  
YSA posters of famous women in histo-  
ry that I mentioned in my last  
article are available at the Women's  
Voice.  

Suggestions or comments? Please  
call or write, Susan Spragg Jones,  
53 Jackson St., Denver 80206,  
21-3597.  

Susan Spragg Jones, a long-time  
member of the Denver feminist  
movement, teaches history at  
Metro State and is now wri-  
ting her dissertation on  
women's history for CU.  

“.. Life is beautiful. Let the  
future generations cleanse it of all evil,  
oppression and violence, and enjoy it  
to the fullest.”  
from Trotsky's last testament  

10 pct. off on  

Trotsky works and other  
Marxist, Socialist and Radical Literature  

Militant Bookstore  

1203 California 623-2825  
Sat. 11-5  

Fri. 10-10

WOMEN'S RIGHTS BY LAW —— the 19th step forward?

The law functions as the skeleton  
of our society. It holds deeply  
rooted mores, prejudices and beliefs  
in a coherent structure.

A revision of the law almost nev-  
er precedes a recognized and strong  
movement manifesting a change in our  
system of values, but rather follows  
such a change. Even when altera-  
tions are made in the laws, if the  
social movement that caused the  
change was not broad enough or deep  
enough, then the new or amended law  
will have little effect. It will be  
ignored or interpreted so strictly  
by the courts that its range becomes  
extremely narrow and thus its power  
negligible.

Two examples of the above would  
be the Fourteenth Amendment of the  
United States Constitution (Equal  
Rights Under the Law) and the Nine-  
teenth Amendment (Giving Women the  
Right To Vote).

The Fourteenth Amendment was  
passed shortly after the Civil War  
and for many years was interpreted  
to apply only to discrimination in-  
volving Blacks. It took decades be-  
fore the U.S. Courts began applying  
the 14th Amendment to any irrational  
discrimination against recognizable  
groups within our society.

After the passage of the 19th  
Amendment giving women the right to  
vote, the women's suffrage movement  
seemed to slowly come to a standstill  
for many years. Women did indeed  
vote, but as far as the law was con-  
cerned, that was about the only  
change for women.

The Justices sitting on our high-  
est Court through their decisions  
over the past century reflected what  
was the predominant attitude in our  
society about a "woman's place."

Around 1872, Mrs. Bradwell wanted  
to become a lawyer in the State of  
Illinois. The Illinois Bar Associa-  
tion said no. She appealed and the  
case was decided by the United States  
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court up-  
held the Illinois Bar Association.  
The Court said through Justice Bradley:

"Man is, or should be, woman's  
protector and defender. The natu-  
ral and proper timidity and deli-  
cacy which belongs to the female  
sex evidently unfits it for many  
of the occupations of civil life.

The constitution of the family or-  
ganizations, which is founded in  
the divine ordinance, as well as  
in the nature of things, indicates  
the domestic sphere as that which  
properly belongs to the domain and  
functions of womanhood. The har-  
mony, not to say identity, of in-  
terests and views, which belong,  
or should belong, to the family  
institution is repugnant to the  
idea of a woman adopting a dis-  
tinct and independent career from  
that of her husband."

The actual legal basis for the  
decision was based upon a married wo-  
man's inability to make and enforce  
contracts. Only her husband could do  
that. Therefore the court was wor-  
ried about how a married woman could  
effectively contract with and for her  
clients.

The Court went on to say: "The  
paramount destiny and mission of  
woman are to fulfill the noble be-  
nign offices of wife and mother.  
This is the law of the Creator."

It is ironic to discover how the  
protective laws for women were ap-  
proved by the U.S. Supreme Court.  
The approval of such laws was con-  
sidered to be a step in the right di-  
rection for the labor movement.

In 1905 New York had in effect a  
law applying to both men and women  
which stated that no worker could be  
required to work in a bakery more  
than 60 hours a week or 10 a day.  
That law was challenged and struck  
down by the U.S. Supreme Court. The  
law in so far as it concerned men was  
unconstitutional as a violation of  
the right to contract and due process.  
Note that the law was unconstitutional  
only as to men. The door was left  
open.

In approximately 1908 the Oregon  
Legislature passed a law limiting the  
hours a woman could work in a factory  
to 10 a day. The law was challenged,  
but the U.S. Supreme Court upheld  
the law and stated in part:

"The two sexes differ in struc-  
ture of body, in the functions to  
be performed by each, in the amount  
of physical strength, in the capa-  
city for long-continued labor, par-  
ticularly when done standing, the  
influence of vigorous health upon  
the future well-being of the race,  
the self-reliance which enables  
one to assert full rights, and in  
the capacity to maintain the  
struggle for subsistence. This  
difference justifies a difference  
in legislation, and upholds that  
which is designed to compensate  
for some of the burdens which rest  
upon her."

The critical language in this case  
(Muller vs. Oregon) follows:  
"...Though limitations upon per-  
sonal and contractual rights may  
be removed by legislation, there  
is that in her disposition and  
habits of life which will operate  
against a full assertion of those  
rights....Differentiated by these  
matters from the other sex, she is  

by Kathy Bonham

properly placed in a class by her-  
self, and legislation designed for  
her protection may be sustained,  
even when like legislation is not  
necessary for men, and could not  
be sustained."

This language has been used up to  
the present time to justify a legal  
double standard for men and women.  
Thus sex became a valid basis for  
classification and a valid basis for  
differentiation.

Protective laws sprang up in every  
state "protecting" women from long  
hours, from lifting heavy weights and  
from such things as going into mines  
and so forth. In the first case,  
Bradwell vs. Illinois, the Fourteenth  
Amendment equal protection argument  
was not even raised.

The entire concept brought over to  
this country from England of women  
as chattels (personal property) be-  
longing either to their fathers or  
their husbands was enhanced by such  
decisions handed down by our high  
court. Up until the last decade or  
so, women in almost all states suf-  
fered from legal disabilities such as  
the right to contract by herself,  
the right to have certain kinds of em-  
ployment, the right to control her  
property or indeed even to have pro-  
perty, the right to go into business  
on her own, the right to be on a  
jury and on and on.

Women and children and idiots have  
been treated in very much the same  
way in our laws. The basis of the  
theory behind this grouping is that  
women, children and idiots must be  
protected and special attention must  
be paid to them. This attitude has  
brought some curious results.

For instance, many states up until  
a decade ago had special sentencing  
arrangements for women. The laws of  
a particular state would set forth  
the minimum and maximum sentence that  
one could be given for being convicted  
of a particular crime. An example  
would be 4 to 15 years.

All of this was done in the name  
of helping the woman, just as many  
of our laws regarding the insane and  
juveniles are made for protection  
but more often than not result in  
far greater harshness than a "normal"  
man would receive from a standard  
sentence for the same or a worse  
crime.

Most of these kinds of laws re-  
garding sentencing of women have  
been repealed or held unconstitu-  
tional in recent years. The 14th Amend-  
ment has been the primary vehicle  
for such declaration of unconstitu-  
tionality.

The part the law has played in  
maintaining much of the myth and  
prejudice about women is considerable,  
complex and revealing. The above  
barely touches upon the meat of the  
subject.

How our society finally reached  
the point of passing an Equal Rights  
Amendment for women and just what if  
anything that Amendment will do is  
an interesting investigation and a  
lengthy one.

Kathy Bonham is a lawyer who has  
been practicing law in Denver for  
over a year.

WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS

The Colorado Women's Political Caucus (CWPC) meetings Sat. March 10 at Temple Square seemed on the surface to be a dull affair. Not only was the meeting strong-armed by a presiding officer and a parliamentarian, but the agenda included such exhilarating topics as the budget and by-laws!

But tucked away in the back pages of CWPC's rulebook are some exciting concepts, to-wit:

1. U.S. women have held more than 70% of the delegate positions at the precinct convention level and less than 4% at the state level, which means that women have had the deciding vote in electing men to represent them. A little political consciousness raising is in order here!

2. Women are beginning to recognize themselves as a voting block transcending traditional party affiliations. To quote Republican State Rep. Carol Tempest, the same people voted for her that voted for Democrat Pat Schroeder.

3. To organize a self-conscious women's vote is to give women power. It's a lot easier to negotiate when you can say with credibility, "There are 40,000 voting women waiting to hear your decision.”

A conversation with outgoing CWPC chairperson Mary Ellen Gallagher revealed that CWPC is just getting firmly on its feet as a non-partisan women's caucus. Last year during election efforts, separate caucuses formed inside each party, with the Democrats' caucus emerging as the strongest. (50% of Colorado’s delegates to the national Democratic convention were women.)

When the National Women's Political Caucus (NWPC) convened in Houston last February, two groups attended from Colorado, the Democratic caucus and the non-partisan caucus. Since that time, much has gone on behind the scenes to resolve the problem of party co-existence within the Colorado caucus to make it an organization that any woman - Republican, Democrat, or Independent -- would feel comfortable in. Some of the tedium evident at Saturday's meeting was directly related to such efforts, Ms. Gallagher said.

In reference to NWPC's convention, she cited as "frustrating” the fact that there was “absolutely no parliamentary procedure." The assembly spent four hours trying to resolve a very minor detail, she said. However, out of the chaos, women gained new confidence in themselves. "You'd hear someone speaking who didn't know a whole lot more than you did, and the next thing you knew, you'd be up there yourself having your say before the crowd."

The "superstars" stayed in the background: women like Shirley Chisholm, Bella Abzug, and Gloria Steinem made themselves available to the delegates, sharing their expertise, but they were deliberately low-key so that new leaders would emerge.

One inspiring element of the NWPC convention that Ms. Gallagher "didn't anticipate" was a "sense of history," of being a part of a movement, not only in rhetoric but in actual, solid, practical fact.

Bringing that inspiration to the grassroots level involves a lot of hard work. Current priorities include: (1) expanding membership to establish a true power block; (2) getting women elected to all levels in government ("If you want girls in shop classes in high school, you'll get funds for the equipment a lot faster if there are women on the school board."); and possibly (3) researching the effect on women of negative political maneuvers like Nixon's welfare cutbacks.

Ms. Gallagher, who is more comfortable herself outside the present political system, nevertheless believes that an organized women's effort utilizing present party structures is needed at this time. She pointed out that, although some feminists are “liberating themselves" by creating autonomous lifestyles outside the system, there are many women oriented to traditional political structures for whom a women's caucus provides a first rallying point for feminist issues. Moreover, women of all political leanings--inside and outside the system--who realize the need to join with other women in a common effort look to the caucus for the necessary structure to make this realization a powerful reality.

A few facts: President of NWPC is Frances (Sissy) Farenthold of Texas. Newly elected CWPC officers are President Marye Scharf, Vice President Estelle Firkany, Secretary Marilynne Siggerstaff, and Treasurer Bonnie Andrikopoulos. CWPC's Board of Directors: Jean Bain, Mary Ellen Gallagher, Karen Paget, Lydia Pena, Cynthia Small, and Rory Zahorek. Membership mailing address: 560 Clarkson.

COLORADO LEGISLATION PENDING

HB 1129. Discrimination in Consumer Credit. Pending in Senate Business Affairs Committee. Senator Garnsey would be besieged with letters and telephone calls.  
HB 1128. Discrimination in Housing. Senate State Affairs, expected to move from committee in April.  
SB 53. Child Care Guide. No action on the problem.  
HB 1258. Requesting $800,000 for Child Care Appropriations. Being introduced by Rep. Chuck Howe.  

(Above information from Bonnie Andrikopoulos, NOW's lobbyist. There is also a bill being pursued by Rep. Carol Tempest to equalize legal contractual age, but its number was not available at this printing.)

U.S. LEGISLATION PENDING

There are two anti-abortion bills before the U.S. Congress at present - HJ 261 and HJ 284. Each bill would “Guarantee the right to life" of the fetus. One states that it would guarantee this right “from the 'moment' of conception," while the other says "from conception." Both bills must be defeated.

The Right-to-Life people are well organized, so we've got to get going. Write to every U.S. Senator and U.S. Representative, whether or not you are one of her/his constituents. Pat Schroeder says the Right-to-Life people have gained access to her office several times at night to leave an aborted fetus on her desk. She also said she has received over 2000 letters urging her support of these bills. As you can see, the Right-to-Life group will resort to any sort of emotionalism. We've got to make our position known to Congresswoman Schroeder and the others.

3/5/73

Now

Memo

Dear Sisters:

The first two issues of  
“Big Mama Rag" are fantastic!  
All of us “women" are in  
desperate need of our own  
paper if for no other reason  
than to know that I am not  
the only one like me...and may-  
be I'm not “sick” after all...  
and hey, this is what I think  
or feel! Also the idea of  
“women" defining and spelling  
our own name and on OUR OWN  
terms is really important!  
There was an article in the  
last issue which I would like  
to comment on..."Books for Kids?  
Careful Now..." My only  
objection was in the terminology  
"Kids" are People! Just like  
you and me, the only difference  
MAYBE is that they are a  
little shorter. They  
have been provided for,  
oppressed, controlled, shielded,  
protected too..."Watch what  
you say in front of the ‘children'!"  
They, like us, have not  
been allowed to BE, to THINK,  
to FEEL, to take their  
OWN LIVES INTO THEIR OWN HANDS!  
Just as I do not like, in  
fact REVOLT against being  
referred to in one of the many  
condescending terms used for  
woman (e.g. "chick," "broad,"  
"baby," "honey") I in turn  
will NOT use condescending terms  
towards my younger sisters and  
peers. We have to learn to respect  
each other as PEOPLE, no  
matter what age, race, sex.  
All oppressed persons MUST work  
together to change this system  
which tyrannizes us all!

In struggle,

Carolyn Agosta  
P.S. Suggestion:  
to read Dialectic of Sex  
by Shulamith Firestone - she  
puts it all together!  
Editors' note: See  

Ms. Agosta's  

review of Dialectic of Sex on page  
of this issue.

LETTERS HOME TO  

MAMA  

I find the writing,  
printing, and graphics of the  
BMR all above average. Com-  
mendable. On the other hand  
I find your editorial somewhat  
unworthy of you. "A woman  
(or a man) who is thinking for  
and about herself" often  
develops into a selfish, small  
creature. I believe the level  
of vocabulary, attention to  
grammar, cubistic artwork,  
layout and printing of the Rag  
demonstrate the above average  
skills and education of your  
staff. If so, might you not  
ask yourselves why this out-  
pouring of effort in print,  
which you might well spend else-  
where in individual advancement?  
A labor of love? Pure altruism  
in favor of less privileged  
females? I doubt it.

More favored than the  
average U.S. woman, you  
nevertheless feel inadequate  
either to attempt high attain-  
ment in the admittedly unsatis-  
factory and male-dominated goal  
reward systems of American  
society, or to strike out on  
your own courses, securely  
tied to your egos as you  
cleave between the Scylla of  
irrelevance and the Charybdis  
of blank failure.

Are you not trying mainly  
to build up your own idea of  
your self-worth? May I suggest  
that this is a valid goal, and  
that the B.M.R. adopt an  
unwritten editorial policy of  
building the ego of many  
women up to the point equal to  
their abilities, a policy of  
encouraging women to reach  
their full potential in the  
intellectual and financial and  
artistic terms dictated by our  
society? Wouldn't this be a  
more positive approach than the  
somewhat narcissistic policies  
you advocate? (After all just  
how many women or men feel  
obliged "to write about their  
feelings, ideas?")

Such a policy as I suggest  
though would require discipline.  
You could not go spouting off  
about Pat Schroeder. Your  
interviewers would have to  
strive to ask her questions  
which bring out her sterling  
qualities, to draw out her  
motivations so other women  
might identify similar forces  

in themselves.  

BMR:  

Thanks for the copy of  
"Big Mama Rag." I really  
appreciated it and best of  
luck to you and the paper.  

Pat Schroeder  

We were happy to see Den-  
ver's first television series  
produced specifically for and  
about women, Anatomy of Woman  
(KRMA Ch. 6) has stirred up a  
lot of feeling and opinion,  
both positive and negative.  
Most important is the fact that  
many women have cared deeply  
about this program and wanted  
it to speak for them.

We would like to hear your  
opinions and your suggestions  
for an upcoming article. It is  
our understanding that the show  
may be expanded into a nation-  
wide series, a prospect we look  
forward to with enthusiasm. If  
this should happen, additional  
funding would hopefully open the  
door for implementing any con-  
structive criticism we could  
generate.

So please think about it,  
and let us hear from you.

PRIME TIME is an independent feminist  
monthly for the liberation of women  
in the prime of life. We believe  
that every period of a woman's life  
should be a prime time--a time of  
growth and fulfillment--whether she  
is in her 30s, 40s, 60s or 90s.

Sub rates: $5/yr., $3/6 mons. Write:  
PRIME TIME, Marjory Collins, Ed.,  

Box 11A, 645 Water St., N.Y., N.Y.  

"Man is mad because he will  
not question the State. Woman  
is mad because she will not  
question Man. When Woman  
learns to question Man and the  
State, we will be well along  
the way to freedom and sanity.”  

Mother McCee  
from Siren, A Journal of  
Anarcho-Feminism  

RIP BOOKSTORE  
737 E. 17th Ave.  

LARCH WOMEN'S SECTION  
ALSO BOOKS ON GAY & LESBIAN  
ISSUES,  

CHINA, CUBA, VIETNAM, MARXISM,  
ANARCHISM, IMPERIALISM,  
ETC.  
ALL BOOKS 20% OFF AT  
ALL TIMES  

Monday 12-6  
Tuesday - Saturday (2-9)

» . a

Amidst twisted sheets,  
and find an excuse to  

shoulders touch  

linger in softness of confused identity  

the feel of tangled leaves  

seeks no other refuse than branches  

that overlap, because they crowd  

My fingers trace upward along  
the structure of your faces  
that leads only to the hollow  
just this side of your ear  

which must hold captive all the words  
that were meant to mean so much more .e.  

And so we reap, and so ... and grow  
our plants and collection of books  

and old friends and lovers, but  

not our capacity of, or for, love.  
We might have been more, but then,  

neither of us was to be trusted  

~Linda O.-  

that way  

with defenses  
I know,  
and  

you could  
call  
me a hypocrite and  

You.  

We're all armor clad  

if I were to tell you  
I would never hurt you,  

Christine,  

wild flower  
woman of beauty  
of love  
the warmth of the sun  
powerful  
like an ocean wave  
roaring into shore  
laughing heart  
touching  
touching  
singing  
wanting  
to BE  

alive...ALIVE  

carolyn agosta  

I would have to believe  

motherhood ... .«::  

Then one day I read "The  
Politics of Housework," per-  
haps the most important article  
I've ever read. I suddenly  
had the following realization.  
David and I certainly shared  
the Amanda tasks but I was the  
one responsible for her. I  
was the one who thought  
of what to do and then delegated  
the responsibility. I  
knew when she was about to run  
out of clothes, when to change  
her crib sheet, and when to  
give the relief bottle of  
apple juice. And then I  
reevaluated our parenthood  
existence. We both uncon-  
sciously acted upon my ultimate  
responsibility for the house-  
work, and, later, for the child.  

Fights, misunderstanding  
and anger began, and was I  
alone. Here I was with what  
most people considered a  
model husband, and I had always  
felt lucky (read: superior).  
I had had talks the previous  
spring with a woman who, with  
her husband, had explicitly  
delegated jobs. I had felt  
David and I had a "greater"  
mutual understanding and we  
didn't need such artificial job  
outlines. Our commitment to  
equality was enough. We  

started to assign specific jobs.  

But I resented that I was the  
one who always thought of what  
to do. We tried to change  
that, but I had been socialized  
well and so unfortunately, had  
David. Our struggles were  
those that many sisters have  
gone through about housework,  
but complicated by Amanda's  
total presence and dependence.  
Our struggles were really  
hard. They were our first ones  
specifically around women's  
issues, and a few words of  
awareness do not break up old  
patterns. The change is  
painful and scary when you feel  
like a fanatic unappreciative  
bitch - but compared to anyone  

else's situation I was lucky.  

My angry feelings turned  

inward, repressed and sometimes  
expressed to David, but to  
nobody else. I didn't want to  
admit failure. "If it's so bad,  
why did you have a baby in the  
first place," I imagined  

others would say to me.  

I felt guilty for resenting  
David. I felt I should  
appreciate his helpfulness.  

I'm frankly not sure what he  
was feeling. Frustration, I  
imagine. Every time he turned  
around I had thought of a new  
task. Oh, those arguments  
about how much Amanda's room  
should be dusted! After all,  
we never dusted our room.  

But she's an infant, and the  
germs are out to get her. All  
should be sterile and as  

clean as the pictures in the  
books. I probably felt more  
should be done than was neces-  
sary; David, less than necessary.  

How could I complain when  
I lived in a commune and so  
rarely ever was home alone with  
Amanda? My housemates adored  

continued on page [5]

AFTER WOMEN’S “LIB

Maria Troy is a would-be college teacher with an MA in English from the University of Colorado who can't find a job. She presently manages an apartment building, which gives her free time to pursue alternative educational situations, among other interests. Don't get me wrong. I am just like you. But when a society has become dehumanized, treating the symptoms just aggravates the disease. Want an easy outlet for frustrations? Blame it on the men. Blame it on the society that is run by men. But who has raised all the children and taught them the values of that society? That's more than half of the dirty work, right there. Men and women today are victims of a society we have been stupid enough to acquiesce to for too long. And now, do you think the truly vital business of the world is carried on in office buildings? Are we seeking equality so that we, too, can struggle with the avarice and the ulcers that plague Seventeenth Street? 

You say you used to be an oppressed sex object? But you gave all your frilly dresses to the Salvation Army? You burned your bra and now you scorn any woman who wears one? When an MCP whistles at you in the park, do you flip him the bird? You're ashamed of having been Snowflake Queen in high school? When somebody calls you "Miss Smith," do you snap to attention, stick out your chin and thunder, "That's MS Smith, buddy!"? 

You've come the wrong way. The structure must be changed, but if the substance is not changed, the difference is irrelevant. We can win equality in the courts, but we can't legislate the human spirit. Where do we start? Not by pointing fingers there and there, but by recognizing our dignity and responsibilities as human beings. What about you? Are you your own oppressor? Do you blame your parents for the way you turned out? Do you blame society? Men? When are you going to start taking responsibility for the way you are? Have you got a chip on your shoulder? Will you be angry with me for saying that Women's Lib is a white, Baby.

It's all together crazy now

How much we've played the fools

The time we've spent “prettying up" 
With silks and furs and jewels.

NOLA EXPRESS/LNS.-

Faces plastered head to chin

And hands that squish of lanolin CAMPUS PROTEST BY BOSTON WOMEN
Tresses golden now are raven
Appendages are glossily shaven. A 52-hour takeover of the

central switchboard of Boston
State College by women brought
administration promises that
every effort would be made to
meet their demands.

The demands included space

for a women's center and a day-care facility, elimination of
salary discrepancies between
men and women holding identical
staff or faculty positions, equalization of athletic expenditures between physical education programs for men and women, establishment of a women's study curriculum, and a guarantee of no reprisals.

If your body is aching, groaning
While the other YOU is angrily moaning.
"Something here, it's just not right”
Is this really ME going out tonight?
It's nice to be the way you are
And not the one from out of a jar
Zits and bulges, mouse brown hair
Expensive clothing that you wear
Doesn't make you more aware
Doesn't make your "loved one” care.

Since You Won't Know Any Other Way, Mister

I'm going to drill a screw through your temples

Just so there's enough air for your brains to

slide around in uncomfortably

I'm going to drive a spike at the top of your head

Just so there's hole enough for all the beautiful women
of the world to stuff rags into Chocolate

It only stifles the inner glow
So stand back sister, let it grow

You'll like the feeling when you WANT TO JOIN A CONSCIOUSNESS-
RAISING GROUP???

Enough I hope that you will share

The knowledge that the “gimmick" is done
And the magnificent YOU has finally won

SELF DEFENSE CLASSES IN BOULDER SELF-HEALTH CLASSES

Humans Against Rape and Molestation (HARM) is offering some of the worry out of her self-defense classes for women beginning in March. Cost is $15 per month. For more info, contact Ren Paget at 447-1301.

Anyone interested in taking self-examination procedures, call Women In Transition at 255-2435.

WHAT?

middle-class fad with more  
empty rhetoric than quiet  
strength? Will you be angry  
with me for saying that a  
Women's Lib paper or magazine  
is of the same breed as Male  
Chauvinist Pigs' Women's  
magazines? Are you just a  
joiner or are you interested  
in a change?  

There is only one real  
change that can take place,  
and it is a change that takes  
place in each individual.  
There is a moral to be drawn  
here, even though morals have  
fallen from grace. It concerns  

the dignity of being a human  
being and how we should respect  
that dignity in others. It  

has been made a maxim in  

every great religion or  
philosophy that has ever lived.  
It begins,  

in the world. "Do  

unto others..."  

ACTUAL SPEECH OF WOMEN'S  

I am not a liberated woman.  
I do not know of one woman in  
this world who is liberated -  
being female we are all equally  
subject to the same inherent  
evils in our everyday living  
situations. To believe that  
the freedom of women focuses on  
individual solutions to “our  
problems" is just another rusty  
door which should've been  
kicked off its hinges by all  

of us years ago.  

When I walk down the street  
I am just as likely to be  
leered at, whistled at, or  
made the butt of some insensi-  
tive joke as my mother is, or  
my next-door neighbor, or the  
woman who works as a doctor  
or the one who performs  
janitorial services. When any  
woman applies for a job which  
has previously been held mainly  
by men, she is just as likely  
to be hassled about it whether  
she identifies with Margaret  
Mitchell or with Kate Millett.  
There are no individually free  
fish in an aquarium.  

No one today would think of  
telling a black person that her  
or his discrimination is an  
individual dilemma. "Pull  
yourself up by your bootstraps"  
has pretty much been buried  
under the pile of old books  

where it belonged in the first  

place. It is also generally  
acknowledged that racism is  

the direct result of someone's  
huge obnoxious thumb being  
pressed down upon someone  
else's vulnerable if unwill-  
ing head.  

Yet as women we still fall  
into the trap that we are our  
own thumb-pressers, that the  
snapping of the strings  
which bind us can be accompli-  
shed with thousands of personal-  
ly monogrammed scissors,  
that the problem is ultimately  
one of "human liberation" (and  
look who's already ahead by  
the very nature of the word).  

The liberation of women  
does not mean exchanging  
female stereotypes for male  
stereotypes. We should not  
wish to adopt either the  
feminine or the masculine roles  
as they are presently conceived -  
Migrant Mary  
Homemaker vs. Mr. Ulcerated  

Maybe I Can Answer  

Mariame Waters  

Walter Wall Street. Further-  
more, the liberation of women  
does not mean that our publi-  
cations are similar to the  
male-dominated women's  
magazines - e.g. Family  
Runaround, Redneck Book,  
Cashmopolitan, Vague, Women‘s  
Daydreams, etc. Feminist  
publications do not seek to  
make "women's place" more  
comfortable and easy (e.g.  
how to scrub the floor in 5  
minutes instead of 25) but  
rather to question and explore  
the kinds of problems which  
affect all of us as women.  
Pointing the finger  
where it rightfully belongs is  
an extremely necessary first  
step for any second-class  
individual or group. The  
black person who was denied the  
bank presidency because of  
race is not individually  
responsible for that denial.  
The woman who was molested by  
her father as a child is not  
personally accountable for the  
confused way she may always  
view sexuality because of that  
molestation. The feminist who  
sees that she lives in a  
society so lop-sidedly in  
favor of the other sex that she  
is always looking up from the  
bottom of the see-saw must  
justifiably be angry with whom  
she sees sitting at the top.  
Nevertheless, this revela-  
tion is only a first step and  
we as women must constantly  
work together to carry over  

the realities of our political  
sexual, and economic (etc.)  

discoveries (and what are  
"human issues" composed of  
after all?) into our everyday  
living situations. Only  

then can we begin to make a  
revolution with our lives.  

But by continuing to believe  
that every woman is personally  
accountable for the less-than-  
someone role that's always  
been thrust upon us we may all  
end up in the playground -  
together but alone at the  
bottom of our respective see-  
saws. There is a moral to be  
drawn here and while it may not  
be quite so old and venerated  
as some it is certainly as  
worthy. It begins, "United  

we stand..."  

SUFFRAGE MEETING  
We will have what men have.  
It may not be much, but we mean to have  
it. If we cannot have it through our  
Organization, we will have it through our  

Combination, or without, if necessary. We  
refuse to be poked in the gallery any more,  
but insist on being placed on the floor of the  
House. That drunken loafer in the house  
says, “Down with the petticoats." I say  
"Up with the petticoats and down with the  
pants." Then things would be visible in their  
true light. We must get together; so who  
as long as women are split up as we are the men will  
always be on top.  

am I waiting for someone to “give" me  
that moment? and pour out...  
you? me  

so why don't I?  

carolyn agosta

“Somewhere let the sun shine”

pues

Anita Seitz is a mother

of five grown children

who works as a secretary

in Arvada and writes poetry.

|

/ Why this, ever, why such to be

remembered

} . ao ae ;
Somewhere let the sun shine through- As remembered, unfortunately, it

its warm must be?

Penetrating rays healing the ravages We have them with us so short a
of the storm. are time

And let the frightened storm-driven Ere a cruel, cold, despairing
soul respond world erases

Why then begin this cruelty, this
cold despair
Even in the so-called haven we

should else create.

To its warmth and feel the goodness
of growth
Of stretching forth in the pleasure
of such healing.

For earth and flowers and trees- —— Love is so ill-used when ill-

tempered
Such waste of effort without real
warmth

Understanding—and the gentle rain

—— of rebuke is received then
easily because it senses the
reason thus given.

That even the monster puppy senses
this insecurity

In baleful glances because, puppy-
like, he has made a puddle...

We have these young beloveds for,
ah, such a little while
And they are gone.

of wishing to be understood for a
seemingly unproven yet
determined thought--

What memories do we feed their

heart's seat... Let us guide, for this is needed-
What will they remember most... What memories do you, past youth, 

remember?

Is it not the sudden pain of being because the storm frightens even

me who grows old, and older

unloved;
still cannot understand
of a heart full of treasures The tumult and the crash and the

blinding of the lightning
flash, 

There is so little time to speak
with love to these impatient
to be grown

And again the wild wind blows-

And the voice of thunder awakens
the blissful sleeper who
quivers with the crash—

The foundations of the haven, home, why and only to be here
are shaken. bruises the tender plants it

The haven is again torn asunder 

So, with angry words, ill-spoken, And the cry is for mercy, Lord—

unchosen spat out without
regard for inner sanctity
Spewn forth, never to be forgotten.

for mercy and for remembering
understanding.

RECOMMENDED CHILDREN’S BOOKS

For preschoolers and beginning
readers:

THE ANIMAL'S PEACE DAY by Jan
Wahl; ill. by Victoria Chess
Crown Publishers

CONRAD'S CASTLE by Ben Sheeter;
Harper & Row

DO YOU HAVE THE TIME, LYDIA?
by Evaline Ness; E.P. Dutton
& Co.

THE FLOWER MOTHER by Mary Calhoun;
ill. by Janet McCaffery, William
Morrow Co.

FIREGIRL by Gibson Rich; ill. by
Charlotte Purrington; Feminist
Press

JENNIFER TAKES OVER P.S. 94
by Mary Lystad; ill. by R. Cruz;
G.P. Putnam's Sons

MARGARET'S BIRTHDAY by Jan Wahl;
ill. by Mercer Mayer; Four Winds
Press

THE YOUNG MAN WHO WOULDN'T HOE CORN
by Eric Von Schmidt; Houghton
Mifflin.

GRANDMA DIDN'T WAVE BACK by Rose 
Blue; ill. by Ted Lewis; Franklin
Watts.

MATT'S GRANDFATHER by Max Lundgren;

For ages 8-11 (give or take) ill. by Fibben Holds

Sons.

G.P. Putnam's

8

Charlotte's Web, E.B. White.
A Yearling Book; Dell Publish-
ing Co., Inc. $ .95; paperback.

OH, LORD, I WISH I WAS A BUZZARD
by Polly Greenberg; ill. by Aliki;
MacMillan

Reesey Shaw,

The Little Prince, A. de St.
Exupery. Harbace Paperbound
Library; Harcourt, Brace &

World, Inc. $ .85; paperback.

SOOLING FINDS A WAY by June Behrens;
ill. by Taro Yashida; Golden Gates
Books.

AS.  
ABORTION COUNSELING,  

The Connection, 1777 Clarkson  
Street, 892-1812.  

Mountain States Women's Abor-  
tion Coalition, 573-7472.  

Ministerial Council, 757-4442  

Planned Parenthood, 2030 E.  
20th, 388-4777.  

BIRTH CONTROL  

Planned Parenthood, 2030 B.  
388-4777.  

Birth Control Center, Boulder  
443-2211, Ext. 8036. (Open 9-5)  

20th,  

CHILD CARE - SCHOOLS  

Day Care, 573-5221  
Strawberry Fields,  
free school, ages 5-12.  

Denver Learning Community,  
1170 Josephine St., 322-5564; free  
high school.  

Denver Free University, 17th  
Avenue at Park Ave., 825-4748  

355-8910;  

COMMUNITY RESOURCES  

St. Andrew's Church, 2015  
Glenarm Pl., 534-9609, crash pad  
and food.  

Food Coop, 1100 Champa St.,  
893-3430, cheap food, good people.  

EMPLOYMENT  

Better Jobs for Women, 1545  
Tremont Pl., 244-4189, government  
financed project to provide aid &  
training for women to  
improve their job skills.  

The Connection, 1777 Clarkson  
Street, 892-1812.  

MEDICAL HELP  

Colo. Gen. Hosp.; 4200 E. 9th  
Ave., 7-9pm for VD testing, MWF  

Denver Metro Health Clinic;  
645 Bannock St., 574-6666 FREE  
Hip Help Center, 1304 Elati,  
222-3344 - Donation  

LITERATURE  

Radical Information Project  
(RIP) Bookstore, 737 E. 17th  
Ave., 825-7413. Anti-profit  
bookstore carrying large  
selection of women's periodicals  
and books.  

Woman's Voice Bookstore,  
673 South Pearl. Denver's only  
Feminist bookstore. Large  
children's selection.  

LEGAL COUNSELING  

Call Donna at 399-2149.  

WOMEN'S GROUPS  

National Organization of  
Women (NOW), 2337 Dexter,  
Denver, 399-8784.  

Everywoman, 2390 Birch St.,  
Denver, 377-0847  

YWCA, 1545 Tremont, 825-7141  
(activities); 406 - 17th St.  

Gay Women (Maureen,  
Chocolate) 534-2861  

Women in Transition -  
333-4983.  

Motherhood continued here. The usual household tasks  

were now shared by five of us.  
‘How could I complain that David  

didn't read the childcare  
books? I remember pressuring  
him to read pages so and so,  
and he would, eventually.  
After all, he was working hard  
in school and I had none of  
those pressing commitments.  

(I was registered, but not a  
student in practice.)  

During Amanda's first four  
months I was involved with  
the Woman's Caucus of my  
graduate program. I had a  
dim realization that that con-  
tact was very important for my  
sanity. It was my only con-  
tact outside of my world of  
Amanda, David and the house.  
Winter quarter began and I  
took some classes. I clung to  
that identity and ego-tripped on  
the fact I technically never  
dropped out of school.  

I remember tripping on how  
atypical (read: superior) I  
was. A lot of my words to  
other people, especially women's  
liberation women, were partially  
to impress. I bragged about  
my negative fantasies of  
killing Amanda and didn't let  
myself feel many positive or  
"typical" ones. I dug acting  
cool and indifferent - being  
a liberated mother. I dug  
nursing Amanda so casually and  
successfully. At the time I  
wasn't conscious of bragging.  

I did have fantasies of escape  
from this drama, of feeling it  
was all a temporary game.  

After all, we hadn't established  
any mutual love relationship.  

I knew it didn’t matter to  
Amanda who was holding her, but  
she did prefer my lactating  
breasts to the bottle. As we  
got into a routine, David and I  
could talk and reflect, as op-  

posed to react, more. I  

resented doing more than my  
exact time allotted share of  
baby care and kept keen watch  
on the division of labor.  

When I wrote some papers for  
school and David seemed willing  
to do more than his share, I  
was amazed and guilty because  
I knew I wasn't willing to  

do the same for him. God, I  
thought I was selfish, but I  
kept my principles because I  
felt a vague, unspoken support  
from some women in my life.  

I was angry and jealous  
of David. He not only had  
the rewards of parenthood, he  
had work he could relate to.  
One reason I nursed as long as  
I did was to keep myself as  
Amanda's most special person.  
It was also difficult to  
share the one area of compe-  
tence I felt I had. Once  
Amanda fell off the bed while  
David was in the room with her.  
One of my gut reactions was it  
wouldn't have happened if I  
had been there. I rushed in  
when David called for me and  
silently felt, I can comfort  
her better than anyone.  

After all, if she prefers  
David, what else do I have?  

I felt very rigid about  
equalization of Amanda's respon-  
sibilities. Because I didn't  
have anything else satisfying  
of my own, and because of a  
guilt about what kind of mother  
I am, I'd slip into doing more  
than my share.  

David didn't feel as  
isolated or have the desperate  
desire to talk about everyday,  

issues of baby care. One  
reason he didn't was that being  
a father was another something  
he did, not something he "was."  
Being a mother was who I was.  
Somewhere in me I felt  
unrecognized, David was the  
focus of attention by being  
so nice and so responsible for  
his child. “Oh, Alice, he is  
amazing and you're so lucky  
because most men don't have  
that special feeling and intui-  
tion for babies," said my  
mother and her friends. He  
got the public accolades from  
me and my friends as well, for  
what was expected from me.  
Again I was being defined  
in terms of a man. People  
looked at us and said how  
lucky I was to have David around.  
It still makes me angry when  
I think about it because it's  
still going on.  

David realized that he re-  
lated to a lot of taking care  
of Amanda in terms of a burden.  
I felt the same way. David  
and I are in a world of child-  
less graduate students and I  
was jealous of them and  
embarrassed to say so because  
I would make public my help-  
lessness and sense of failure.  
I feel guilty even in writing  
this today because I am think-  
ing "what does this say about  
my getting into the joys of  
motherhood?" Those moments of  
joy were there, but they were  
never long lasting.  

Somewhere in me I feel  
Amanda is cheated - to have a  
mother who is so totally ambi-  
valent, who finds her boring  
in long stretches of hours,  
who resents her constant deman-  
ding dependence. When I  
viewed her as an object to be  
responsible for, my negative  
feelings and fantasies rushed  
in. When I'm taking care of  
her it’s either her trip or  
ours together. Perhaps I can  
read something light or listen  
to music, but there's no way  
I can be into anything or any-  
body else in a deep way.  

What about any positive  
feelings? Sometimes they come  
out of guilt, when I'm wishing  
I was away from her. It  
seemed like I was always schem-  
ing to get away from her. Then  
I realize she herself is really  
cute and innocent and it's  
not her fault she's on this  
earth. She's just a cute  
Amanda panda hangin’ in. Then  
there are the times that I  
really do want to be with her  
and I get into her babiness -  
her constant changing, explo-  
ration, joy, enthusiasm and  
honesty.  

I do dig her and my love  
grows as she does, but in this  
journal I want to stress the  
difficult aspect. Those  
positive moments for me - the  
energy for them is only freed  
up when I don't objectify  
her as a chore to be endured.  
And I don't have to do that  
when we're together out of  
choice. I imagine she knows  
those times I don’t dig being  
with her. And I do believe  

the liberation of children is  
intimately connected to the  
liberation of women to be our  
own selves.

Which one of these 2 drivers...a painter...a mother of  
2...a legal secretary...a medical student...a welder...  
a draftsperson...an ex-nun...past Treasurer of the National Honor  
Society???

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 1, no. 3, [March 1973]. Archives  
of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/RPXXCH141244669/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.