April, 1974 : Vol. 2 No. 6

|
}
|

What’s happening
| with the Movement in CO?

©
=
fe)
be
o
Q.
\e)
=
3
i)
3
”
C.
eo)
c
Se 1 ;
=)
o

Black Feminists Organize in NY

Carol Lease

Last August I saw New York City. The Palisades looked like a fortress against the city across the river. Manhattan crowded with dominoes end on end ready to fall. I paid my dues at the Museum of Modern Art and watched a ragged man beat his skinny dog for refusing to drink gutter water. A family of old men set up house with a sofa and an old stove and table under a viaduct to the Brooklyn Bridge. The Staten Island Ferry transported hoppy school children and seagulls watched to know exactly when to fly out of the ferry’s path. And in New York City in August of 1973 there was a press conference announcing the existence of a Black Feminist organization.

Late last November the National Black Feminist Organization held its first conference in New York. About 400 women from widely diverse backgrounds attended plenary sessions, participated in informal discussions and workshops covering issues that included welfare, child care, addiction, employment, Lesbianism and “the relation of Black women to one another and to the Women’s Rights Movement.”

White women’s liberation groups, according to NBFO founders, didn’t respond to the specific needs of Black feminist women. “There was no real communication, no cultural communication,” explains Doris Wright a member of NOW. “I can’t be concerned with making it on Wall Street - not that NOW doesn’t try to do something about child care and welfare, but it’s only attracted white middle-class women.”

Black men see the Women’s Movement as a “takeover plot,” according to Reverend Magora Kennedy of the Boston Women’s Movement, “and say that if a Black woman isn’t having a baby and standing behind her man, then she’s not a woman.” She also cited Stokely Carmichael’s statement on the position of women and the Black Panther emphasis on “having male children for the revolution” as ways in which Black men had kept Black women “subservient.”

According to the report on the NBFO conference in the December-January issue of Off Our Backs not all the women who attended the conference were in basic agreement with the women who had formed the organization, namely, that the NBFO is a part of the Women’s Movement addressing itself to the specific concerns of Black women.

These issues were not resolved in the plenary sessions and were probably discussed in workshops but since the white female press wasn’t allowed into the workshops and the Black female press was told not to report on them, whether or not any resolutions were reached on these issues is unknown. Press releases and workshop transcripts have yet to be released. Membership to NBFO is restricted to Black women only.

However, Jane Galvin Lewis, one of the co-founders, said that the direction of the NBFO will not be changed because of objections raised by some conference participants. “This organization was formed for certain reasons, and those reasons still exist. There are plenty of other organizations that Black women who don’t agree with our basic tenets can join. We see ourselves as part of the Women’s Movement, a part with a special interest. We're not separatist.”

Angela Wilson, a member of NBFO, was the sole Coloradan at the conference. She saw “feminism in action” by the fact that so many women of such different ages and experiences were present. She was impressed by the organization that went into the conference that was tight and got things done, but was “loose enough to let changes occur” and left plenty of room for the individual. There isn’t any leadership ego-tripping apparent yet in NBFO, a lethal aspect that “tends to break any movement because leadership then doesn’t listen to the people.” Workshops were closed to the white female press because it was felt that some women “wouldn’t be as open” if white women were present.

Busy Getting Established

As far as Denver is concerned, Ms. Wilson believes that no chapter of the NBFO has been established because “Black middle-class women in Park Hill and in other parts of Denver are too busy establishing themselves in professions and poor Black women are too busy surviving day to day.”

Also—the impressions that Black women receive about Women’s liberation and Feminism come from the media which can often distort women’s issues, focus on outlandish, unrepresentative aspects of feminism, or actually report what is happening in established women’s liberation groups which is often irrelevant to their lives.

Don’t Black women and white women have some of the same political, social, economic problems and priorities? It seems that the dichotomy of this segregated society has prevented Black women and white women from forming an alliance. In Wilson's opinion it’s a question of how you want to die: “slowly by marrying and moving to Englewood or quickly by living in a Black neighborhood and having your brain and body deteriorate.”

“A lot of Black men are very oppressive. They are oppressed by white society and in turn oppress the Black woman. When they move up through education they leave the Black community behind and criticize the Black women for the ‘matriarchal’ Black family,” Ms. Wilson insists. The oppressed accept and imitate the oppressor. So white patriarchal society means a Black patriarchal society. The strength and resourcefulness that the Black woman has had to develop is critical not only to her immediate survival but to her discovery of her own Feminism.

Recognizing Sexism

Organizations that are community-based and have grassroots support are “those that survive.” The National Black Feminist Organization is no exception. Black women in their own communities will have to recognize sexism and oppression and organize around their individual Feminist needs and priorities. Ms. Wilson thinks that “maybe a way to organize a Black Feminist action group would be for those Black women who are in Women’s Liberation groups to recognize specific needs for themselves and then establish a chapter.

Or maybe a group of Black women who, say, work in a hospital, could organize better because in their everyday lives they confront sexist oppression and are forced to live with it. They have no choice.

Or maybe we could just get an office going... the fact that it was existing might help Black women realize their power. But Denver is a complacent city. I don’t think there are 10 or 15 Black Feminists in this city.”

In the Black civil rights groups and in white leftist politics the personal life of the militant was unaffected by her political beliefs. Here lies the difference in Feminist orientation. No separation exists between the political and personal life of the Feminist. She lives her politics.

Not the Women’s Fault

“It isn’t the fault of Black women in Denver that nothing is being organized considering the struggle Black women have to go through,” according to Ms. Wilson. “It is a positive step for a Black woman when she sees sexism and oppression and realizes that her struggle isn’t for tomorrow but today.” To realize the strength that organizing gives and the potential that a nationally organized group can give seems to be the next step for the Black woman in Denver.

The National Black Feminist Organization will have its first convention this summer to draw up a constitution and set policies. Whether or not Denver is represented will depend on Black Feminist consciousness in the Rocky Mountain Region.

Some arguments against Black feminism are that Black women can't afford to be competitive with Black men, that Black women have no time for Feminism because of their struggle to stabilize their families, that Black women tend to see all discrimination against them as being racist in origin, that Black women don’t have time to take up a white middle-class cause like Women’s Liberation unless they're trying to hide from the realities of the struggle for Black liberation. Impressions of ceaseless distortive rhetoric that tend to perpetuate the power of those that mouth it—not the powerless!

The rhetoric ends when the facts emerge. It is a fact that many Black women identify themselves as Feminists, that a national organization has been formed around that realization, and that once again national census figures reveal an increasing numerical discrepancy between females and males in the Black population of this country.

More Females than Males

The 1970 census shows that there are 1,096,000 more Black females than there are Black males. The 1960 census recorded the difference in the female-male ratio to be 648,000. Up to the age of 14 the Black male population slightly exceeds the female population. Then the decline begins.

In “Jim Crow and Jane Crow” from “Black Women in White America,” Pauli Murray says that “... while it is now generally known that women are constitutionally stronger than men, that male babies are more fragile than female babies... that the male death rate is slightly higher and life expectancy for males is shorter than that of females, the numerical imbalance between the sexes (of Blacks) is more dramatic than in any group in the United States.”

Between the ages of 15 and 24 there are 92 Black men for every 100 Black women. In the 25-49 age group the ratio is 84 to 100. There are about one and a half million more Black women over 14 years of age than there are Black men. The social implications of these statistics place the Black woman in a position where her life transcends the issue of civil rights. Again Ms. Murray states: “Equality for the Black woman must mean equal opportunity to compete for jobs and to find a mate in the total society. For as long as she is confined to an area in which she must compete fiercely for a mate, she will remain the object of sexual exploitation and the victim of all the social evils which such exploitation involves.”

Women have been traditionally expected to marry, produce children and household labor, and be largely if not totally economically dependent on their husbands. This keeps women out of competition in the job market. But now there is an entire group of women that may not be able to marry and will have to be self-supporting perhaps while also supporting others. Can Black women afford to subordinate sex discrimination to race discrimination? Feminism is an undeniable economic reality to all women, and an urgent one to Black women.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 6

HELP SERVICES |
ABORTION COUNSELING |
Alternatives, Inc. 449-6565  
Creative Health Services 321-0567  
Ministerial Council 757-4442  
Problem Pregnancy 399-7065  
Abortion Referral and  
Counseling Service 1400 Lafayette 255-2009  
Boulder Valley Clinic 2346 Broadway 442-5160  

BIRTH CONTROL  
Planned Parenthood 2030 E. 20th Ave. 388-4777  
Birth Control Center  
Boulder  

COMMUNICATION  
Big Mama Rag 1724 Gaylord 322-2010  
Institute Mt. West 2096 Emerson 573-6394  
Sister Switchboard 1895 Lafayette 623-4349  

COMMUNITY RESOURCES  
Capital Hill Tenants Union 1460 Pennsylvania 825-2329  
Common Market Food Coop 1100 Champa 893-3430  
St. Andrews Church 2015 Glenarm 255-9775  

EMPLOYMENT  
Better Jobs for Women 1545 Tremont 244-4189  
Womanpower 2475 Broadway 442-5468  
no, 12 Boulder  

HEALTH SERVICES  
Colo. Gen. Hosp. Clinics 4200 E. 9th Ave.  
Creative Health Services 4645 E. Colfax 321-0567  
Colo. Spgs. Women’s Health 409 E. Fontanero  
Denver Metro Health Clinic 645 Bannock 574-6666  
Hip Health Center 1304 Elati 222-3344  
People’s Clinic 999 Alpine, Bldr. 449-6050  

LEGAL SERVICES  
Big Mama Rag 1724 Gaylord 322-2010  

LITERATURE  
Radical Information Project 737 E. 17th 825-7413  
Woman’s Voice Bookstore 673 S. Pearl 733-1178  

WOMEN’S GROUPS  
Boulder Women’s Center 9th & Arapahoe 449-1590  
Ft. Collins Women’s Center 629 Howes St.  
Women in Transition 1895 Lafayette 623-4349.  

BIG MAMA RAG STAFF  

Co-Editors  
Chocolate  
Linda Lane  
Elissa Meyer  

Journalism  
Nancy Heine  
Randi Lornell  
Becky Bohannan  
Carolee Sudmeyer  
Yvonne Bills  
Nancy Bills  
Carol Lease  
Maureen Mrizek  

Typesetters  
Betsy Peto  
Becky Morgenstern  
Glenna Booth  

Ads  
Donna Good  
Sally Ferguson  
Susan Bavaria  

Distribution  
Jan Eastburn  
Pam Scooros  
Konnie Kindle  

Staff  
Linda Fowler  
Skoschi Traux  
Michele Belluomini  
Barbara Hime  
Nancy Heine  

Layout  
Joyce Naffziger  
Bourge Miller  
Linda Thompson  
Kathy Desilets  
Jackie Bryson  
Annie Zeigler  
Libby Comeaux  

Photos and Graphics  
Logie Logan  
Mary Britt  
Patty Giles  
Tony Reynolds  
Glenna Booth  
Carol Kliger  
Darlene Bianchi  

Cover Photo by  
Darlene Bianchi  

Big Mama Rag is a Feminist periodical published monthly for the  
women of ‘CO’. Submit manuscripts (no more than 2000 words) to  
BMR by the twentieth of each month and enclose SASE. We reserve  
the right to edit all material. BMR is published by Big Mama Rag, a  
non-profit corporation. We are located at 1724 Gaylord, Denver, CO,  
80206. Office hours are Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, from 10 am  
to 4:30 pm and on Monday through Thursday from 6 pm to 7 pm.  

Call us at 322-2010.  

HELP! Big Mama Rag has just  
recently opened a new office  
and we need lots of odds and  
ends. Like office supplies, a  
papercutter, a large coffee pot,  
ashtrays, posters, clippings a-  
bout women’s issues, file fold-  

ers, a file cabinet, etc. You  
name it - we probably need it.  
If you'd like to help out just  
stop by the office (1724 Gay-  
lord) during office hours or give  
us a call at 322-2010.  

A woman's place:  
Breaking Bonds  

Janet Sergi  

Women are changing. What is a  
woman's place? How can we  
become new women? Today old  
modes of acting and interacting  
with one’s self and others are  
unacceptable. We cannot be the  
ever-nurturing females that  
many of our mothers were.  

Both our biological and  
mythical mother figures have  
forsaken their own identities to  
shape and mold their daughters  
and sons into the roles the  
patriarchy needs. Sons become  
workers or the professional  
elites. These males are  
psychically nurtured from birth  
to death by females: first by  
their mothers, then by  
mothering wives, and lastly by  
mothering daughters/nurses in  
old age.  

In a patriarchy, sons revolt  
from their nuclear family ties  
and set off on their own. In the  
course of a man’s rebellion, he  
finds a female who performs the  
nurturing role for him. In  
heterosexual men this takes the  
form of a wife and the cheap  
service and labor of women in  
the economy; homosexual men  
just have the latter.  

Women are men’s prime  
possession. This is the reason for  
the extreme competitiveness and  
aggression of males. The results  
are war, capitalism and of  
course, woman's  
dehumanization. She is but an  
object. Her function is to serve  
man. She cannot help herself  
nor her female children. A  
female has no identity other  
than her connection to the male,  
i.e. women take the last name of  
their closest male relative.  

Mothers break their bonds  
with their female child early.  
The daughter begins to nurture  
the other children in the family  
and dotes on her father before  
she is grown. Freud is incorrect.  
The daughter is socialized in a  
patriarchy to nurture her father  
and all men not for love but for  
survival. She turns into a  
mother/wife before she is  
allowed to be a daughter, a  
female to herself. This lack of  
mother nurture and female self  
identity produces much hatred  
and jealousy among women.  

This kind of horizontal  
hostility among women weakens  
them and makes them more  
amenable and available to the  
male power structure. The  
female has only one role, that of  
mother. Still after four years of  
feminist training, I tend to think  
of others first, afraid or unsure  
of my own needs.  

A new role for woman would  
be that of a daughter, a female  
for herself. A daughter nurtures  
herself. A daughter rebels  
against everything that denies  
her her own energy. A daughter  
climbs every hill and valley of  
experience without even the  
thought, “Is this proper for a  
woman to do?” A daughter to  
herself is the greatest threat to  
the patriarchy. She deprives men  
of female nurture and service.  

Men use women's energy to  
control the world for their own  
benefit. Control and power are  
the unifying concepts of sexism,  
racism, classism and imperialism.  
White, upper-class men control  
the rest of the world’s energy.  
First, they usurp their mother’s  

energy, then through their  
patriarchy they become a  
parasite to all women, the lower  
classes, and other races.  
Females, racial minorities, the  
working classes and the Third  
World have no identity or power  
other than their nurturing role  
to white males.  

Radical feminism begins to  
break this cycle of oppression.  
Daughters become daughters to  
themselves. Females begin to  
have a self-identity. They keep  
their own power and energy  
unto themselves. Thus white  
males are deprived of ill-gotten  
energy. Men are not allowed all  
their mother’s energies. The  
cycle begins to break. Men are  
not given the right to other  
people's energy, be they female,  
poor or racially different.  

What is needed is a daughter’s  
rebellion. Rebellious women are  
daughters to themselves; the  
vitalities of a new order. A  
daughter to herself keeps her  
power and energy to herself and  
thus stops the vicious cycle of  
white male supremacy.  
Concretely, we need to learn  
skills in all fields of human  
endeavor. And we need  
to build a woman's community.  

These communities should be  
social and political units capable  
of giving love and support, time  
and energy, and wisdom and  
knowledge to other women. A  
women’s community is the place  
where women’s energy will be  
generated and stored.  

The minority and Third  
World Communities are building  
their power bases. Likewise  
women must regroup themselves  
for the long task ahead. We are  
working for a place where each  
of us is powerful unto herself.  
The patriarchy needs to be  
replaced, not by a matriarchy  
nor any form of hierarchy, but  
by an energized society. It might  
be called a woman's place;  
a woman's place is a place for  
herself.  

ALTERNATIVE SCHOOL -  
Sebastian House - Alternative  
School during the day for young  
people aged 10-18. Film classes in  
the evening for adults. Located at  
1629 York St., Denver, CO.  

Literature  

7  
South Pearl St.  
DENVER  

733-1178

Women

Nancy Bills

I'm frustrated. How do I start? From the beginning. When I started this article for Big Mama Rag, I knew no more about what was happening in legislation affecting women than that the Equal Rights Amendment had been passed in Colorado but hadn't been ratified in enough states to make it a constitutional amendment.

I interviewed Bonnie Andrikopoulos for the information I needed. She’s the NOW lobbyist for this year. Bonnie called this “the unfeminine year” regarding any legislative action on women's issues. It wasn’t very encouraging but we went on anyway. Buzz Wilder (Governor Vanderhoof’s legislative assistant) told Ms. Andrikopoulos that the governor did not want anything on his call that didn’t relate to the land issue, the energy crisis, prison reorganization, and the Denver annexation problem.

He felt that if the legislators concentrated on just these issues it would be enough for them to handle this session. The basic tenets of Feminism as I see them (comprehensive child care, fair laws covering all people, and adequate, safe medical care for all) begin at least to cover our human needs. But this attitude is a hard one to push in a society concerned with the outward mechanics of things.

There are essentially only three major areas up for work in the Colorado legislature that even begins to look like progress for feminism. One, involving the reorganization of the prison system, isn’t very far reaching at all. The other two, requests for increases of funding by the Colorado Social Services Department for their Day Care Fund and by the Family Planning Services of Colorado for expansion of their Planned Parenthood Centers, go a little deeper into our issues.

In the House of Representatives, Carl Gustafson has sponsored HB1080 and HB1081 concerning the prison reorganization. They concentrate on administrative changes in the divisions of the departments and in abolishing old departments and creating new ones. (This is the “mechanics of things” that I was talking about.) Ms. Andrikopoulos said NOW wants to see more programmatic changes instituted to give women better rehabilitative work programs and to have the women’s facilities moved from Canon City to Denver where they would have more chances to work. In the Senate, Ralph Cole introduced SB11 which goes deeper into the idea of reorganization by asking for the establishment of a diagnostic center for rape offenders. Ms. Andrikopoulos said NOW will be watching the funding on this bill closely, urging its passage.

The Family Planning Council is asking for funding to set up Planned Parenthood Clinics in towns that presently are without them. Southern Colorado is especially uncovered by Planned Parenthood. The need for women in these towns to get adequate birth control information is probably great in light of the trend of small town communities to suppress an open expression of sexuality. Not understanding the mechanics or consequences of sex can lead to a very painful and unnecessary end. People all over explore and act upon their sexuality whether or not mama and papa said it’s OK to do so. We all have the choice — I'd like to see that women have the means for carrying through their choices.

The Colorado State Social Services Department is asking for $1.2 million dollars more than this year’s estimated total expenditure of $5.3 million dollars for their Day Care Fund. That’s $6.5 million dollars and it’s to cover the care of an average of 92,016 children per month at $59.01 per month per child. This is to provide aid and incentive to low-income and AFDC parents to work and establish financial independence. The Social Services Department funds children through independent or non-profit child-care organizations. There are no state sponsored child care centers as yet in Colorado. Ms. Andrikopoulos talked highly of the Social Services practice of licensing women on welfare to open home day-care centers if they want to. They also offer basic training in nutrition and psychology to help these women meet state qualifications. If the home doesn’t have what the state deems adequate facilities, then Social Services has the State Licensing Committee come in and help implement the necessary changes. This way these women gain an income and at the same time can provide solid care for children in a home atmosphere. NOW sees these home centers as being very important in providing the kind of complete care needed by children. They’re working for the whole child as well as the whole woman. Ms. Andrikopoulos told me about a home center she visited in Greeley. She said, “The love in that center was beautiful. I bet it costs her (the woman who heads it) money at the end of every month.” But the woman cares and the people involved put in long hours towards keeping the center running. The impetus behind this center is the change that came for the parents. When they were free to work and able to earn an adequate income to pay their bills, provide food and clothing for their children, they could finally feel their independence and self-worth. This brought a change in their children. When their parents felt good, they could feel good. Ms. Andrikopoulos said “more legislators need to know what's happening here. More people need to see what can happen when help is given in the right direction. We've become so depersonalized and unfeeling that we can’t see one another.”

On the national level I found a little more to be happening, both pro and con, for feminism. Senate Bill 2101, Title III has passed the senate and is now in the House Banking and Currency Committee. This bill is to end discrimination by credit companies based on an individual’s sex hopefully making it easier for women to obtain financial credit on our own. Unlike two similar bills proposed in Colorado (HB 1128 and HB 1129), this bill still includes the stipulation that discrimination cannot be based upon a person’s marital status. This is important in that single, divorced or widowed women are looked upon as even greater financially sound without a man behind her name.

Even though the marital status section was amended it’s important to note that they were the first bills NOW has ever lobbied for in Colorado and both were passed. I learned that the chairperson of the HB & C Committee is Lenore Sullivan who is definitely not a feminist. There may be problems in getting SB 2101 out of her committee and we are urged to write our representatives supporting this bill without amendment.

What I found interesting is the Flexible Hours Employment Act (SB 2022) introduced by Senator John Tunney (D-Cal.). The bill would require within five years of its passage that ten percent of the positions in every level in every executive agency of the federal government be made available on a part-time basis - part-time being defined as either four hours per work day or one to four days per work week. A flexible hours job is one which is a permanent responsible position with standard civil service protections and prorated fringe benefits. Senator Tunney declared that the bill would help “end the discrimination, particularly against women with children imposed by the basic pattern of working hours in our society.” NOW feels that the bill could especially benefit parents in leaving both free to contribute to the raising of their children and to the income of their family.

The Right to Life Committee is really moving in Washington. Ms. Andrikopoulos said the committee is introducing amendments to any funding bill they can to prohibit the use of any federal monies for abortions. This is after the Supreme Court has ruled laws prohibiting abortions to be unconstitutional. A woman now has the right to choose abortion or not, but the Right to Life Committee is insisting that poverty-level women still get the shaft because they don't have the resources to pay for an abortion. So out comes the closet abortion, deadly for any woman. The committee was successful in attaching such an amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973. Fortunately (though they would like it to be otherwise), federal funds can still be used to dispense contraceptives. Last year, just before the Social Security Act Amendments were going to the conference committee, Senator James Buckley (C-NY) introduced section 193 to the act reading “None of the funds under title 19 (Medicaid) may be used for the performance of abortions.”

Senator Buckley went on to say “that if Congress felt that federal funds ought not to be used abroad on abortions on foreign women, then at least we could accord the same protection to our own women.” The amendment was agreed to by voice vote with no hearings or even discussion on the senate floor. The Right to Life Committee is also working hard for a constitutional amendment to make abortion illegal by guaranteeing the life of the fetus from the moment of conception. I agree the life of a fetus is precious if it’s created in love. The pain of an unloved child is too great. Until we have the means, physically and spiritually, to provide birth control to every woman, I feel there’s a need to keep abortion as an option for any woman who chooses it. It would be a real waste of energy if we had to face the question of legal abortions again. Let your legislators know that you support the Supreme Court Decision of January 22, 1973. Finally, The Equal Rights Amendment is here. Two more states ratified it last year, leaving 6 of the 38 states needed to make it a constitutional amendment. There’s a good chance it will go through this year. The ERA brought together a lot of different groups that have never worked with one another before. This gives us a good basis for making a strong coalition in the future on other issues.

Lastly, NOW will be concentrating on rape this year. There will be a kick-off coalition meeting March 2 at the United Way Auditorium at 1375 Delaware. It's open to the public and the conference is scheduled the full day from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.

A Big Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 6

Women and Jobs: An Uneasy Marriage

Randi Lornell

I work as a high school social studies teacher. The other day the
librarian brought me a new filmstrip project on “The Changing Role
of Women” to review. Those things are always pretty impressive: they
quote Shirley Chisholm, and show Indira Gandhi, and talk to women
who are doing wild and woolly jobs, and interview female lawyers and
professors. As I watched it, I thought, wow, isn’t this terrific, and in

such a few short years...

Then I walked down the hall to ask the female aide to do some
typing and get some food from the female cafeteria staff. Before I
went to see the male vice principal, who referred me to the male
principal... Hey, if all these changes have happened, like that neat
filmstrip showed, how come I don’t see any in my life?

And so I decided to find out what really has changed for employed

women in Denver.

Here is a test, class. Answer
the following multiple choice
question (there is one best
answer): “Women in the feder-
al government have made:

1. great progress

2. some progress

3. very little progress

4. less than no progress:
they’ve gone backwards.”

Depending on what informa-
tion you look at, any of these
could be correct. For instance,
in 1968, 16.9% of all supervisors
were women; by 1972, this was
down to 13.6%. But overall, the
best answer is no, 2. What's
more, there is general optimism
that over the next few years, no.
1 will replace it.

There are a great number of
different groups advocating wo-
men’s rights in the federal
government. Perhaps the most
effective are the departments’
Federal Women’s Programs, the
operating arms of which are the
Federal Women's Project Com-
mittees. Two of their functions
seem particularly promising.
One is the supervision of their
department's Affirmative Action
plan (which, in terms of the
feds, means how to get women
out of clerical and into profes-
sional positions). The other is
the setting up of various task
forces to look into specific
issues and make solid recom-
mendations. Undoubtedly,
each federal department's FWPC
has its own particular interest.
But all have the overriding
concern of how to move women
ahead. Granted, the affirmative
action plans will hopefully deal
with this; but in the meantime,
the committees themselves are
acting. In January of this year,
for example, the Civil Service
Commission's FWPC under its
coordinator Doris Veeden spon-
sored a three-day seminar called
Reach for Success, devoted to
helping secretaries and para-
professionals learn how to move to
the management level. More
than 300 people attended, of
whom 7 or 8 were men. The
workshop proved so popular
that another was held in early
February. Significantly, most of
the employing agencies both
granted release time and paid for
interested employees to attend.

Will Gains Result?

Will concrete gains result?
From 1968 to 1972, the per-
centage of women in grades 9-12
(management level) went from
8% to 11.1%; in grade 13 and up
(the highest), from 1.8% to
3.1%. Those are, in my mind,
miniscule gains. But Veeden
believes “we will see a lot of
advancement in the next 4-5
years.”

In a different vein, the FWPC
within HEW is working with the
Denver Police Department on
developing a self-defense pro-
gram. Like all projects in the
department's FWPCs, the self-
defense idea was suggested by
women in the department.
There are no directives coming

down from either Secretary
Weinberger or the Big Man
himself.

While the success of the

FWPCs will be decided by the
activity and determination of
the women themselves, the pro-
gram is sponsored by the govern-
ment. The woman elected by
her fellow female employees to
be coordinator of her depart-
ment’s committee is relieved of
some of her other duties. In
other words, the government in
effect hires a part-time coordina-
tor for each department. And
luckily, in Denver, several wo-
men interviewed emphasize that
the regional director here, who
has the real power, is “really
committed” to women moving
ahead.

Women in the federal govern-
ment have also organized on
their own, apart from the
government-sponsored FWP.
About five years ago, FEW
(Federally Employed Women),
Inc. was formed on a nationwide
basis to end sex discrimination
within the federal government.
Frankly, one gets a feeling of
“Potomac fever” in talking with
some of their people — “in
Washington they’re really doing
a lot, but you know, well, out
here, well...”

Well, it’s a little hard to see
that they're doing much of
anything out here. Last year
FEW’s year-long project was to
educate women about the af-
firmative action plans so women
could learn how to take advan-
tage of their new opportunities.
This year they’re checking on
the agencies’ AA plans and soon
will see if the agencies are really

following through on them.
They “put pressure on” — but
offer no specifics as to how
that’s done or even what it
means. More tangibly, FEW is
active in helping some women
who have brought sex discrimin-
ation cases within the federal
government, both through the
internal grievance procedures
and into court.

FEW claims that because they
are recognized by management
and can carry on activities on
clock time, and because they
can focus unfavorable publicity
on practices they don’t like,
they are successful. Yet their
leaders also apologize for having
few (no pun) members, and even
fewer young ones. They men-
tion that the union movement is
where things are really going to
happen. It leaves one a bit
skeptical.

Universities are supposed to
be the liberal bastions of the
society, or at least that’s their
image. If you take what's

happening in women’s struggle
for equality as an indication,
however, that ain’t the way it’s
working.

Any organization with more
than 50 employees that has a
contract with the federal govern-
ment or gets federal funds must
not discriminate in employment.
For many large employers in-
cluding educational institutions,
this has meant drawing up
affirmative action plans that will
ensure equal treatment in hiring
and firing as well as in promo-
tions. DU’s sounds good, and on
the principle that you should
always praise before you con-
demn, we'll look at that first.

The Affirmative Action Ad-
visory Board (AAAB) at the
university is set up to monitor
and analyze how women and
racial minorities are doing in
each department, to set goals,
and to work with those depart-
ments that are not actively
trying to meet equal employ-
ment goals. The head of the
AAAB must affirm every open-
ing (i.e., you can’t hire your
friends without telling anybody
else about the job).

In addition, there is a Com-
mittee for Women on Campus
(CWC) that was started about
three years ago by faculty
members concerned about work-
ing conditions. The CWC has
also always included students
and staff.

Stuck in Boring Positions

This year, the committee is
emphasizing the problems of
clerical staff. And here, again, is
the familiar refrain that begins to
get old the 43rd time
you hear it: women are stuck in
dead-end boring positions, with
little chance to move into
professional or management pos-
itions. Women are paid less,
largely because they are put in
jobs with “smaller” titles. And
the eternal problem: how do
you prove these things are due
to discrimination, and how do
you do something to change
them? The CWC is meeting with
the vice chancellor, personnel
director, and the AAAB in
March to “discuss” them.

To my question, asked con-
tinually to both AAAB and
CWC people, what real progress
has been made, came always the
same answer: nothing tangible
yet, but we're working on it.

There are undoubtedly a
multitude of reasons for the
stagnation, some peculiar to DU.
But one is common to us
all, though particularly severe to
educational establishments right
now: jobs are tight. You can’t
hire women, or minorities, when
there are no jobs to hire them
for. And no one is likely to get
all fired up and militant when
being fired will probably mean
going on unemployment com-
pensation.

So the women of DU plod
along, going to committee meet-
ings, hoping that eventually
something, in the economy at
large and/or within the universi-
ty, will crack. But it’s going to
be a wait.

More on Page 5

WOMEN AND JOBS

From Page 4

That’s no Lady—That’s Ma Bell

Trying to find out what's going on to improve employment for women at the Big Lady is like talking to a white-sheathed maiden about abortion. You feel like she doesn't know what you're talking about, but she’s offended anyway.

A good portion of Mountain Bell's employees are women, and a union is supposed to represent the workers, right? Well, Karen Vannoy, the Traffic Vice President of the Communications Workers of America, doesn’t know of any women’s group within the company (there is one, albeit run by management), and makes it quite clear that her union represents both male and female workers and it would be inappropriate to talk about women specifically. The end.

There was a NOW member working with Mountain Bell, but she got so discouraged she hasn’t done anything for the last six or eight months.

Yet something is happening there. At the suggestion of the Vice President General Manager (a male and the top Colorado executive of the company) after a NOW presentation, a Women's Advisory Board was set up. Headed by Connie Brage, a personnel supervisor, the WAB works in a number of different areas. In terms of employment, it seems to be largely concerned so far with getting female representation on important committees that affect job training and promotion, and expediting job discrimination complaints (actually handled by the Equal Employment Opportunity coordinator). It has also designed a project to help move women into non-traditional (i.e., “male”) higher paying jobs; which “for all intents has been approved.” In other areas involving working conditions for women, Mountain Bell seems to be moving very slowly. Although she has for some years granted maternity leaves for up to a year with an equal job guaranteed upon return, she will probably agree to paid maternity leave only when a final irrevocable court decision is in. (There are several cases in the courts now.) Also, although she looked into day care, it seems that that's just not in the stars for the near future, for various reasons.

It's hard for me to believe that with all those women running around at the phone company, their only organization is a management-sponsored board. I keep thinking there must be some groups that I just haven't been able to discover that are really trying to do something about their employment.

Are any of you out there?

Private Industry: If a Mouse Roars, Can a Lion Squeak?

The first law of capitalism, as we all learn in week one of economics, is profit. The second law is that change does not, in the short run, maximize profit. Those two sentences summarize what is happening in private industry, for the most part. “All this women’s lib stuff” just does not end up in a bookkeeper’s ledger as a great plus, if you're going for this quarter or this year instead of the long pull.

But, like with Mountain Bell, there are rays of light here. About two years ago, Samsonite got together some interested people in industry to form the Affiliates of Affirmative Action. This group meets either monthly or bimonthly to share knowledge and programs with each other about the status of both minorities and women. It seems hard to pin down what they have actually accomplished, but perhaps it is indicative of a change in attitude. (As an aside, Samsonite also looked into starting a day care center at about the same time. It may be a firm to watch.)

Maybe it would have been more accurate to say “photons” rather than “rays” of light. Great Western Sugar, which is a member of Affiliates, was able to name me five women in positions of any leadership at all, and these included the secretary to the president and a “girl” accountant. One of the five had come to her job in the last year, hardly an indication that GW has made a dramatic new commitment to advancing women. My searches located no industry-sponsored day care, although the Child Care Project at CU Med Center has received “10 or 12” serious requests for help in this area. What change has come and will come to private enterprise is almost entirely due to the federal government. The terms “affirmative action,” “Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,” and “federal contract compliance” have been mentioned earlier; they now should be explained fully.

The halcyon days of the early ‘60s saw the first important legislation in the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which became effective in 1964, and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Together these outlawed discrimination in both employment and wages. In 1965 the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission was created to “persuade” employers to obey the law. Of course, we all know how effective persuasion is in affecting the law of profit (watch Nixon persuade the oil companies to hold down prices); for several years, EEOC was little more than a gadfly. Then in 1972, strengthened by the power to bring class action suits, EEOC won the historic ATT case, in which the phone company was ordered to pay more than $30,000,000 in back wages to women employees. For reasons best known to itself, Congress saw fit at that time to pass the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972. This had two important effects. One was to increase EEOC’s budget by $12,000,000, with which it was able to hire more excellent lawyers. In addition, the law empowers the EEOC to attack patterns of discrimination in specific industries, with the review of statistics as a critical tool, a precedent set in the ATT case. Hence, since March of 1972, we have had a federal agency with the power and money to enforce the employment laws.

Less than a month before Richard Nixon was first voted into the White House, President Johnson's Executive Order 11246 went into effect. This order “prohibits employment discrimination based on sex, as well as on race, color, religion, or national origin, by federal contractors or subcontractors and contractors who perform work under a federally assisted construction contract exceeding $10,000.” Now every employer of more than 50 people can be reviewed by one of the 20 agencies of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance. (For example, the airlines are regulated by the office in FAA, banks by Treasury, DOW Chemical by AEC, etc.) It is the OFCC that is responsible for the affirmative action plans, by which employers must set up goals and methods of increasing employment of minorities and women. As could be expected, the OFCC agencies in Denver have concentrated on the large employers: IBM, Honeywell, Western Electric, and several banks are among those who have shown some improvement through the efforts of OFCC. Unfortunately, the office in Denver does not have current figures to show exactly what gains have been made.

Getting private industry to accept social change is like persuading high school students that “they gotta do their homework.” It goes over only with either a veiled or present threat of the stick. As employed women, we are lucky to have the federal government's Office of Contract Compliance to urge preventative action, and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for punitive measures. Hopefully it need not be pointed out that law enforcement is always a selective process. It is important to elect politicians whose priorities in the law lie with equal employment.

Day Care Makes a Tentative Beginning

The bread and butter issues of employment — who's being hired for what jobs at what salary — are obviously of primary importance. But anybody who’s ever worked knows that the fringe benefits and working conditions are also terribly important in the day-to-day living at the job. For women, the question of what to do with the kids while you're at home looms today as probably the greatest job-related concern.

In this area, Denver is far behind other sections of the nation, particularly the East and Far West. As well as I could ascertain, only two employer-related day care centers are currently operating: one at the CU Medical Center (the older of the two), the other at the Federal Center on West 6th Avenue. As stated before, the Med Center Child Care Project has received about a dozen serious requests for help in starting centers, and several companies looked into the idea before dropping it.

To understand the problems involved in getting an industry day care center going, it is illuminating to look at how the Med Center managed theirs, and why the Chalet Child Center, planned for the Greenwood Plaza area, has floundered.

The story of the Child Care Project will stir any feminist’s heart — nay, the heart of any activist, of whatever sex. For it is a story of folks getting together over a common need and winning. In early 1972, a group of women formed a committee to try to found a day care center. In a shrewd move that some of us might learn something from, they rounded up some smart people who already knew what day care was about. They proceeded to set up model services: a day care center and a system of satellite family day care homes (personal homes recruited to take several children, to whom they gave help, loaned toys and equipment, and relieved for ½ day a month). The Med Center group then wrote a grant proposal, submitted it to HEW’s Office of Child Development, received approval in June, and started flying. The project is now involved in both classical research on day care and its demonstration model. Nice story, isn’t it?

Too bad the other story isn’t so rosy. In fact, it is abominable.

The Chalet Child Center is the brainchild of Mimi Wegrzyn, an experienced teacher and community action worker. When Ms. Wegrzyn arrived here with her husband, she looked for a job in her field. When she realized the futility of that, she started on the day care merry-go-round. Before long, two facts hit her in the face: many kennels in Denver offer better facilities than do many day care centers; and Greenwood Plaza, employing many young mothers as well as fathers, had no facilities whatsoever. And so she began.

Several months and at least $7,000 later (fees for engineering surveys, etc.), the Chalet Child Center remains a good idea. It has recently been rejected by the Arapahoe City Commission for not conforming to zoning regulations. The plan will have to be revised and resubmitted.

Who has $7,000 sitting around to even apply for a permit for a center? In addition, Colorado law has stringent regulations requirements for new day care centers — but they don’t apply to those already in existence. How will the new centers, which will obviously cost much more to conform to the rules, compete with the established ones that can continue business as usual?

The Med Center's project has federal funds. The one at the Federal Center is run by private people eligible for Small Business Administration loans. With costs what they are, will any employers be able to supply day care without governmental subsidies?

To Conclude: I Don’t Know Where That Filmstrip Got Its Information, But It Wasn’t Here

There is no question that things on the women’s employment front are moving. Government, education, industry, do have affirmative action plans. You do see those revealing percentage points moving upwards, slowly, slowly. Women are joining together to fight for improvement in hiring, upward mobility, and child care, as well as issues such as self-defense that they feel affect them particularly. And this article has certainly not been exhaustive in covering what’s happening; rather, it has sought to highlight. Finally, space has not permitted mentioning such groups as the Colorado Civil Rights Commission, the Colorado Commission on the Status of Women, or Better Jobs for Women, all of which are among those doing important work in this field.

Yet none of that can hide the inescapable fact that for the overwhelming majority of employed women, things have not tangibly changed. Most of us are not Great Western’s “woman chemist in Loveland,” nor are we among the 59 women out of 1,928 highest paid employees in federal government in Colorado, nor does our employer provide day care nearby.

Over and over comes the refrain: “over the next four or five years...” and “tremendous strides really are being taken...” and “women power is just coming into its own...” Can it be believed? The question is irrelevant. Whatever the prognosis, women have only one choice: to keep on plugging, working for the small gains, and working, and working, and working: in their places of employment, in politics, and in unions.

W Going  
re Were Where We’ve Been  

Some people think of Denver  
as a place to stop in between the  
West Coast and Chicago. But for  
most of us, Denver is our home,  
our work, and our interest.  
Consequently, and in keeping  
with the theme of this month’s  
issue, “The Women’s Movement  
in Colorado,” Big Mama Rag  
decided to seek out the ideas  
and feelings of local feminists.  
Exploring the personal and theo-  
retical issues of Feminism is a  
priority for the present Women’s  
Movement, and BMR hopes to  
provide a forum for a continuing  
exploration. We realize that the  
following opinions do not ex-  
press a true cross-section of the  
Feminist consciousness in Colo-  
rado, but offer it as a beginning,  
and plan to print articles similar  
to this one again in the future.  
The women interviewed in the  
following article have all been  
active in the Women’s Move-  
ment for several years, and  
identify themselves as Feminists.  
To simplify the process of  
reporting, we asked everyone  
the same three questions: 1)  
Explain who you are and what  
led to your involvement in the  
Women’s Movement; 2) Present-  
ly, how do your Feminist views  

and philosophy affect your life?  

(Job, school, ambitions, rela-  
tionships); and 3) What do you  
feel are the most significant  
future priorities for Feminists?  

JACKIE BRYSON  

My first intellectual awareness  
of some of the issues of the  
Women’s Movement came in  
1963, when I read The Feminine  
Mystique. I considered it my  
Bible for several years, but had  
no one with whom to share it. I  
filed it away in my personality  
under “Anger.”  

In the Fall of 1969 a friend of  
mine, traveling from Boston to  
Washington, D.C., visited me for  
a weekend, and brought with  
her the Feminist writings of the  
Bread and Roses women’s group  
in Boston. These writings  
contained the beginnings of a  
real Feminist consciousness for  
me — concepts of sisterhood,  
and a woman’s culture, and  
relationships that were not  
power-structured. I was a public  
school teacher at the time, and,  
within a month, organized a CR  
group with the librarian at our  
school. For me, this was the real  
beginning. I had sisters.  

Being in New York, I had the  
opportunity to trail behind  
some radical groups, attending  
conferences, seminars, etc.,  
attentively, but at a safe  
non-threatening distance. After  
all, I had a family. Those women  
were free.  

I lived in Berkeley the  
following year, and spent a lot  
of time at the women’s center  
there. Again, I found warm,  
independent women. I was  
attracted by their strength, by  
their sense of beauty of  
themselves. One Friday night I  
was attending a meeting about  
Angela Davis at the women’s  
center. I was nine months  
pregnant at the time, and still  
believe the woman-force in that  
room awoke my sleepy baby.  

My labor began there, and my  
daughter was born the next day.  

In 1971 I moved to Denver  
and sought out a women’s group  
at once. I was welcomed into a  
CR group as if they'd all been  
waiting for me. We celebrated  
the joys of sisterhood. We  
taught each other what we  
knew. We drew, we painted, we  
sculpted, we photographed each  
other. We danced, we hugged,  
we sang. We believed we could  
do anything. We loved what  
made us different from men. We  
discovered the power of being  
women — of being women  
together. I am still in touch with  
most of these women, who now  
look back on that group  
experience as having been a  
“once-in-a-lifetime”  
life-changing event.  

Presently, my Feminist  
philosophy affects my life as  
follows: 1) I appreciate being a  
mother. I think it is my greatest  
life experience. 2) I am in  
process. I am still giving birth to  
myself. I have a lot to learn. 3)  

I can’t do everything. I had to  
join the forces of women  
asserting that I could do  
everything in order to do  
anything. Reality sets in  
quickly. I know I can’t do  
everything. Right now I want to  
study law and am pursuing that.  
I still can’t fix my car, I don’t  
know karate. I hate plumbing.  
But I don’t have to do any or all  
of those things at once. I can  
choose. I think women do a  
disservice to themselves and  
each other by claiming (for very  
long) that they can do  
everything. Assess situations  
realistically. Know what you can  
do and do it: Never lie to  
yourself. 4) I'll fight for what I  
want. I’ll protect myself and  
those I love. As Flo Kennedy  
says: “The time has come for  
kickin’ ass and takin’ names.”  

The most significant future  
priorities for Feminists? I’m not  
sure. What I see around me are  
women struggling for  
recognition, for personal  
satisfaction, for some real work.  
Men have called these issues  
“human” problems. I see them as  
women’s mandate. What can we  
really do collectively if we are  
half-baked individuals? Women  
must attend to themselves, but  
not only to themselves. The  
Women’s Movement can be, and  
I fear, will be co-opted (bought  
off). The flagrant injustices are  
likely to be ameliorated by the  
system's reforming itself. It is  
the responsibility of Feminists  
to see to it that Feminist  
Consciousness imposes itself on  
the world, as a Mother would  
impose her values on her family.  
Women in positions of  
leadership have a special  
responsibility in this regard —  
reform must not lull us to sleep.  
We must keep the country aware  
that we are not talking about  
reform as it has been defined  
before, or mere self-interest. We  
are talking about  
evolutionary-revolutionary  
changes in human consciousness  

— about sweeping political  
change, about values, about  
reversing priorities, about  

matriarchy. Obviously, there is  
little moral leadership in this  
country. Doing what one can  
and maintaining one’s integrity  
is no more essential than  
creating changes in  
consciousness, and being there  
when the times are right.  
Wherever you are.  

But, like when you're  
baking bread, there are things  
that can be done while you're  
waiting for the yeast to grow.  
For me, these priorities are: not  
backing down, keeping in touch  
with other women around the  
country and with what they're  

thinking, building solid  
relationships with many kinds of  
women, learning women's  
culture, and loving  
children.  

BONITA TRUMBLE  

I first became involved with  
the Women’s Movement in 1969  
when I attended the Second  
Annual Congress to Unite  
Women in New York City. I was  
already politically active in  
Philadelphia, but this new (to  
me) movement was obviously an  
answer to a lack in my life. The  
two women with whom I had  
attended the conference and I  
rushed back to Philadelphia. We  
called all of our women friends  
together to turn them on to  
what we had learned, and a CR  
group was born.  

Shortly thereafter, I learned  
of WITCH (Women’s  
International Terrorist  
Conspiracy from Hell), and this  
women’s group with its flair for  
theater and art, its positive  
emphasis on women’s values,  
and its unique sense of humor  
was clearly the way for me to  
express myself. Through the  

help of Robin Morgan, I  
organized a chapter of WITCH  
in Philadelphia. These two  

activities culminated in the first  
Women’s Conference held in the  
Philadelphia area. It was held in  
March of 1970 and was attended  
by over 300 women.  

I came to Denver in the Fall  
of 1971, and during 1972 I was  
the Associate Producer of  
“Anatomy of Woman” at  
KRMA-TV. This ten-week series  
took a look at today’s woman,  
her life, and the issues  
confronting her.  

I am currently the director of  
Sebastian House, an alternative  
school for young people aged  
(0-18). I feel that working with  
young people is a viable way of  
effecting change in society.  

Obviously, a first priority is  
the passage of the Equal Rights  
Amendment. It is absurd in this  
day and age, in this country (or  
any country) that equal rights  
should be denied to anyone.  
Second, women must begin to  
make paths into all kinds of  
previously male-dominated areas  
- medicine, law, politics, the  
arts, science, government, etc. It  
is especially important for those  
of us working with youth to  
urge bright young females as  
well as males into these areas.  
Third, and maybe most  
important, Feminists must begin  
to take their role as women  
seriously. For a long time we  
have felt that we must gain the  

Big Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 6  

male concept of power in order  
to succeed. We won't change  
things by becoming the  
aggressors - by perpetuating the  
power trip of one group of  
people over another. Now is the  
time for the true nature of  
woman, the real basis of the  
strength women have always had  
to come forth. A first step is to  
ask ourselves: What is  
essentially woman? Is it  
patience? Understanding?  
Love? Armed with answers to  
this basic question, we will  
understand ourselves better, and  
this understanding will enable us  
to make better use of our  
strengths. The Women's  
Movement has already had a  
tremendous impact on this  
country and we’ve only just  
begun!  

I am employed by the State  
of Colorado as Supervisor of  
Case Handling and Investigations  
for the Colorado Civil Rights  
Commission. The commission  
enforces laws which prohibit  
discrimination in employment,  
housing and places of public  
accommodation based on race,  
creed, color, sex, national origin  
and ancestry and, in the case of  
housing, marital status and  
religion. I have been with the  
commission almost nine years,  
and have seen its development  
from no involvement with sex  
discrimination cases to one of  
such cases presently constituting  
one-third of its case load.  

I am a Charter Member of the  
Denver branch of the National  
Organization for Women and  
have attended two of its  
national conferences. I have  
been Employment Task Force  
Chairperson and have made  
many public appearances, either  
for NOW or for the Civil Rights  
Commission, speaking on  
Women and Employment.  

I have been concerned with  
all forms of discrimination most  
of my life. I was an active  
member of the American  
Association of University  
Women in California and in  
Boulder for many years. Just  
prior to joining the Civil Rights  
Commission, I took graduate  
work in social psychology at  
CU, where I conducted research  
relating women’s roles to  
personal values and child-rearing  
attitudes. This work led me to  
some in-depth investigation of  
women's roles, problems, and  
developmental stages - thinking  
that was a forerunner of the  
present Women’s Movement.  

Fortunately my views are  
most relevant to my job. I find  

that I was brainwashed  
concerning behavior towards  
supervisors, but my Feminist  

philosophies are helping that  
problem. I have always insisted  
that I had rights - hence I went  

More on Page 7

ELEANOR GISH CROW

back to do graduate work before  
it was fashionable and with  
criticism from many women. I  
am anxious to let women see the  
ways in which male chauvinist  
philosophy permeates our world  

so that they too can do  
something about it. I believe  
that I brought up my two  

daughters to be Feminists, or at  
least to value their importance  
as individuals, and to plan  
careers for themselves. My older  
daughter is just finishing law  
school at CU. My younger  
daughter graduated from  
Oberlin College last May and is  
now studying violin seriously in  
New York City with the goal of  
a musical career. My husband  
has accepted some role reversals  
- having volunteered to take over  
the washing and ironing. He is  
now partially retired, which has  
brought about some other  
changes in my attitudes towards  
traditional roles.

I think that the priority for  
the future must be to open up  
the employment world fully so  
that women will no longer be  
“cheap labor” and exploited.  
This requires that back-up  
services be provided for women  
with young children - day-care  
centers and innovative methods  
of allowing two persons to share  
one full-time position.

CAROL HOUSE

I have been involved in the  

Women’s Movement for a few —  

years now, and during that time  
my activities have changed a  
great deal. My goal, in terms of  
women’s rights, is to obtain full  
economic, political, and social  
rights for women. Two years ago  
I thought that the Women’s  
Movement was a revolutionary  
vanguard movement. I saw  
sexual oppression and sex  
discrimination as the primary  
oppression that was common to  
the masses of people in this  
country and the world. I called  
myself a Radical Feminist.

Since that time, I have moved  
away from active participation  
in many women’s groups,  
including Big Mama Rag and am  
now working mostly in mixed  
political groups. I still believe  

that the end to sex  
discrimination and the  
attainment of full democratic  
rights for women is in the  

interests of the broad masses of  
the people, but I do not think  
that the present Women’s  
Movement can attain these goals!  

Although  
the women’s movement has  
been instrumental in raising the  
issue of the oppression of  
women as a group, the  
over-emphasis on such issues as  
“sexual freedom,” abortion, and  
an anti-male/anti-marriage/  
anti-family attitude has turned  
away many third world and  
working class women who are  
concerned primarily with issues  
which concretely affect their  

lives - such as equal pay for  
equal work, their double  
oppression as Third World  

women, day care, welfare rights,  
housing issues, etc. I no longer  
see that sexual oppression is the  
primary oppression which  
women suffer. I see that our  
society is a class society and that  
therefore all working people  
suffer economic oppression. The  
major contradiction is not  
between men and women, but  
between workers and capitalists.  
Sexism is only one of the tools  
that the capitalist (or ruling)  
class uses to oppress people who  
have to work for their living.  
Another glaring example is  
racism. These methods are  
employed to create divisions  
between workers and pit one  
against another. I see sexism as  
part of a larger class struggle in  
which all working people, men  
and women alike, must join  
together for the betterment of  
all. This is not to say that  
women should push aside issues  
of sexism, but that sexism must  
be dealt with in a constructive  
way, keeping in mind who the  
enemy really is. The enemy is  
not men in general, it is the  
economic and political system  
which encourages and practices  
racism and sexism.

I think that the Women’s  
Movement must speak to these  
issues more forcefully and more  
persistently, and must learn to  
speak to the concrete,  
immediate, and practical needs  
of working women. In addition  
the Women’s Movement must  
learn to develop an overall  
political and economic analysis  
of this society.

1. I am a woman who has carried  
a sense of the way the world  
should be from a very young  
age. I have never enjoyed the  
inferior status relegated to me as  
a girl or as a woman. I have  
always been a rebel, a tomboy, a  
“cocky bitch,” because I have  
never accepted the role my  
family and culture have prepar-  
ed for me.

I had been searching for many  
years for a word to describe the  
ideas and feelings I've had. After  
two years in the left, fighting for  
primarily male-dominated  
causes, I joyously discovered the  

word Feminism.

I found strength and stimulus  
in other women who were  
coming to the same realizations  
as I, and we formed one of the  
first women’s groups in Carbon-  
dale, (IL). We were primarily a CR  
group, but because of the  
political upheaval on the South-  
ern Illinois University campus  
that spring, we had to learn to  
trust each other in crisis situa-  
tions. Experiences such as riots,  

MAUREEN MRIZEK

a police raid, tear gas bombings,  
and even jail forced me to really  

depend on and trust other  
women.  
After moving to Denver, I  

found that some Feminists here  
had not undergone the same  
kind of “shock” program I had.  
Although the intellectual theo-  
ries we shared were similar, the  
gut feelings and the trust in one  
another were very restrained.

Nevertheless, I sought out  
women who were acting to  
express their guerilla theatre and  
found that to be a very invigor-  
ating experience. My activism  
produced such an incredible  
amount of energy and enthusi-  
asm that I became involved in  
many different Feminist acti-  
vities. One of the most note-  
worthy is this newspaper. Big  
Mama Rag has been and will be  
a source of pride and encourage-  
ment for me.

2. Feminism is responsible in  
many ways for the way I view  
myself and other women. I am  
proud of being a woman, proud  
of the potential I’ve developed  
and the potential I see in other  
women. I enjoy being with  
women, I think we’re beautiful.  
I love the energy and intensity  
women create with each other.  
Feminism has opened my eyes  
to the possibilities of seriously  
pursuing a career in law or  
music, or both. And when I say  
serious, I mean that; a half-assed  
attempt will not do for me  
anymore. Feminism has made  
me take myself seriously.

Feminism affects the way I  
relate to other women because I  
have learned to analyze the  
dynamics of a relationship and  
hopefully move toward an egali-  
tarian goal. Being a Lesbian, I  
find my Feminism both a  
positive and negative force.  
Many Lesbians do not under-  
stand, or care to understand,  
Feminism and tend to relate to  
women in the same ways men  
relate to women. This evokes  
the same anger in me that  
sexism coming from men does.  
On the other hand, my Femin-  
ism — when I relate to other  
Lesbian/Feminists, helps clear  
the way for a more progressive  
type of relationship.

3. As for future priorities I  
think we should institutionalize  
Feminism. No, not in a mental  
ward; we should create our own  
institutions which will enable us  
to develop and be the most  
complete and creative people we  
can be. When I say institutions,  
I mean things like a Feminist  
Savings and Loan Association, a  
credit union, educational funds,  
medical programs, maybe even a  
Feminist church, using Feminist  
doctrine and drawing upon mat-  
riarchal history. I want us to be  
here to stay and have the most  
force and impact we possibly  
can have on the culture we're  
here to change.

FERN GAPIN

I have been politically active  

since 1969, when I became  
chairwoman of the Boulder  
Student Mobilization  

Committee, the largest anti-war  
group in Colorado. In 1970, the  
year that I joined the Young  
Social Alliance (YSA), I was  
active in the Boulder Women’s  
Liberation Coalition, and helped  
to found “Coloradoans Against  
All Abortion Laws,” which later  
became the Mountain States  
Women's Abortion Coalition  
(MSWAC). In 1972, I ran on the  
Socialist Workers Party ticket  

for U.S. House of  
Representatives in District 1.  
Presently, I am an active  
member of the Student  
Women’s Coalition and the  
Farmworker’s Support  

Committee at Metropolitan  
State College, where I am a  
student. I’m also on the  
Executive Committee of the  
Denver Young Socialist  
Alliance. When I realized that the  
goals of Feminism could not be  
achieved in this society - that  
capitalism, with its  
overwhelming drive for profits  
and its built-in exploitation,  
actually requires the oppression  
of women - I became a Socialist  
as well as a Feminist. I joined  
YSA, a revolutionary socialist  
youth organization, and two  
years later, I joined the Socialist  
Workers Party. My political  
activity is the most important  
part of my life. Changing this  
society into a humane, socialist  
society where women, and all  
other oppressed groups will be  
able to achieve real liberation  
has top priority for me. I see  
myself being involved in  
Feminist activities up until,  
during, and after the socialist  
revolution.

There are certain priorities  
which have risen organically out  
of the Women’s Movement  
demands for 24-hour  
community-controlled child  
care, equal job and educational  
opportunities, and women’s  
control of their bodies. I think  
one of another of these demands  
will be at the center of my  
struggles that develop with a  
Feminist focus. Right now, the  
fight for passage of the Equal  
Rights Amendment is very  
important, requiring active  
support from the entire  
Women’s Movement. A very  
exciting “new” development,  
which is really the continuation  
of past, unfinished struggles, is  
the organization of trade union  
women. A new, younger,  
Feminist leadership is now  
stepping forward in the union  
movement. I am certain that we  
will see developments like this  
occurring on a massive scale in  
the future.

KAREN MARINIACE

I have worked as a social  
worker and a therapist in  
Colorado for over six years.  
Most of the time I live with  
John Marinace and our  
five-year-old son, David. I have  
been involved in the Women's  
Movement for 3½ years and  
involvement has been both  
personal and political ... I don’t  
believe I could separate the two.

In my first real CR group, I  
learned that I could care about  
other women, and began really  
caring about myself. I made  
demands in my marriage which  
allowed me more freedom and  
recognition for my strengths.  
Personally, I have felt a rebirth  

process in which I became more  

free to be myself. Politically, I  
have spoken on women’s issues  
to groups of students, ministers,  
church women, social workers,  
and psychiatrists. I entered my  
son in a Feminist day care  
effort, which grew into the Lucy  
Stone Cooperative, in which we  
worked together to raise our  
children in a non-sexist setting.

Feminism became an impor-  
tant part of my activities in the  
radical therapy movement.  
Another woman therapist and I  
started a Single Mother's Group,  
composed of young women who  
had decided to keep their  

babies, rather than to give them  

up for adoption.

I have always supported the  
activist part of the movement,  
and have taken part in  
demonstrations, speak-outs, and  

courtroom activities. I believe,  

however, that real political  
change begins within each of us.  
People begin to listen when  
discarding sex role stereotypes  
means freedom for both sexes to  
become persons. I find it  
important to confront even the  
smallest put-down or stereotype.  
Therapists must learn to treat  
their clients as persons, not as  
roles.

Sometimes it’s easier to  
maintain my own personhood at  
work or in casual relationships  
than it is at home. John and I  
have found that to be really  
separate persons sometimes we  
have to physically separate.

One of the challenges I see for  
the future is raising children in a  
nurturing non-sexist  
environment. Traditional  
marriage proves to be stifling for  
adults and children. All of the  
priorities of the Women’s  
Movement are important for  
me: women taking power,  
changing the media,  
consciousness raising, supporting  
our sisters. The most significant  
priority for me in the future is  
to find ways for people to live  
together - big people, little  
people, men and women -  
without denying the needs or  
personhood of any.

8 Big Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 6

Abortion Reference and Coun-
selling Service of CO.

Kathy Sulzman, working with
NOW, recently set up an office
offering free counselling and
referrals to doctors and clinics as
needed by any woman who asks.
Ms. Sulzman personally inter-
views the doctors she refers
women to, screening the doctors
according to how responsive to
women’s needs she feels they are.
1400 Lafayette, 255-2009.

American Association of
University Women (AAUW)

AAUW is a nationwide
organization with 31 local
branches in Colorado (seven in
metropolitan area). Major
concerns are study-action groups
on women, media, learning and
foreign policy, community
involvement, implementation of
AAUW federal and state
legislative programs,

improvement of education at all
levels, and financial support for
fellowships and research and
project grants for women.
Membership is open to all
women who have a bachelor’s or
higher degree from a college or
university. For information,

contact Colleen Lautenbach,
3088 Eldridge, Golden 80401.

Aspen Women’s Caucus

The newly organized Aspen Wom-
en's Caucus is directed toward such
local and national issues as
women in politics, media
portrayal of women, sexist
hiring practices, sexist ads, and
consciousness raising. The
immediate goal of the AWC is to
establish a feminist library,
either in the Pitkin County
Library or in a center of its own.
A women’s center is a long-range
goal and several Women’s Nights
are also being planned. In March,
guerrilla theater will be
presented at a local coffee
house. Contact Linda Griffin
(communications) 925-1100;
Karen Massotty (speakers’
bureau) 925-1430; Penny
Gardner (politics) 925-3538; or
write the AWC, P.O. Box 937, in
Aspen.

Better Jobs for Women

Women, do you want to be a
carpenter, plumber or heavy
equipment operator? If you are
a woman living in Denver and
state this type of occupational
direction to a Better Jobs for
Women staff member, you won't
receive the usual pat on the head
with a dampening remark,
“Little girls don’t plumb, dear!”

BJW, funded by a Department
of Labor contract, is an out-
reach program designed to place
women into skilled trade and
craft-registered apprenticeship
or similar on-the-job training
programs. All BJW placements
are into full-time, full-phase
training programs, averaging in
length of three to five year time
periods. BJW makes no
part-time or temporary
placements. If seeking entry into
the skilled trades, call BJW for
an appointment at 244-4189.

Boulder Valley Clinic

This is a private, non-profit
abortion clinic which is open to
any woman considering an
ambulatory abortion (patient
under 18 must have parental
consent). The purpose of the
BVC is to provide a humane,
supportive, dignified atmosphere
for women seeking a
first-trimester abortion.
Emphasis is on counselling which
helps an undecided patient review
the alternatives for a problem
pregnancy. The fee of $110
442-5160.

Boulder Women’s Center

The center serves as a
resource center, a meeting place,
an educational center and as a
connection for women new to
Boulder. One ongoing function
of the center is a Wednesday
night discussion group which is a
general rap session on a wide
variety of topics. Plans are also
in the making for an observance
of International Women’s Day,
March 8, to be held at the
United Protestant Center at
1520 Euclid. We are located at
Ninth and Arapahoe in Boulder,
449-1590.

Sidney Abbott and Barbara
Love, co-authors of the book
Sappho Was a Right-On Woman:
A Liberated View of
Lesbianism, will be speaking
Saturday, March 16 at 8 pm in
the CUDC auditorium (Room
214) at 14th and Arapahoe. The
event is jointly sponsored by the
Gay Coalition of Denver, the
World Affairs Conference and
the Office of Student Affairs at
CUDC. It is free and open to the
public.

Colo. Democratic Women’s
Caucus

Through our efforts at
communication, offering
workshops, lobbying, and
support of Democratic women
candidates, we are trying to do
something worthwhile with and
for Democratic women in
Colorado. We are also affiliated
with the non-partisan Colorado
Women’s Political Caucus and
the National Women’s Political
Caucus. 1571 S. Clayton St.,
Denver (777-2865).

Colorado University
Women’s Liberation Coalition

We offer CR groups, a car
mechanics course, films, and a
small library of books about the
Women's Movement. We also
publish a monthly column
(“Ball and Chain”) in the
Colorado Daily. Our meetings
are held every two weeks and we
hope to bring Robin Morgan to
speak at the campus this spring.
We are located at CU in the
Memorial Center, Room 181.
Phone 443-2211, extension
7735.

Colorado Women’s Bowling As-
sociation

Located at 650 Newport,
388-2137.

Creative Health Services,
Inc.

A new corporation of
independent nurse practitioners
which is starting specialized
health care for women. Our goal
is to provide a “total health
experience” for women of all
ages, lifestyles and
backgrounds. Specific services
include such things as physical
exams, medical hypnosis,
counseling for pregnant women,
family counseling, and gay
counseling. We are also
conducting two special groups,
one dealing with being a woman
in today’s society, and the
second dealing with “Our Bodies
— Ourselves.” A group therapy
program for gay women is
starting in early March. For
information about these services
and their cost contact CHS,
4645 E. Colfax, 321-0567.

Denver Lesbian Center

Open to all Lesbians. We meet
every Sunday at 1:00 p.m., hold
potlucks every other Sunday
night, have CR groups on
Friday nights. Our office is
located at 1895 Lafayette (in
the basement) and office hours
are 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. M-F. Call
573-7704 for further
information.

Denver National Organization
for Women

New office
Unitarian
Lafayette.

located at the
Church, 1400

Gestalt Institute of Denver

If you have been looking
around for a new way of dealing
with your world, the Gestalt
Institute is available. Jean
Fortier and Sharon Kachidurian
are presently co-leading a
women’s group designed to
explore the roles, expectations,
myths, sexuality and meaning of
each member’s womanness. Our
focus will be within a Gestalt
framework with a liberal
intertwining of fantasy, art,
group processes and whatever
emerges. The group will meet
weekly from 7:30 p.m.-10:00
p.m.; the fee is $8.00. The
Gestalt Institute also offers
ongoing self-awareness groups,
workshops and individual work.
If we can give you any
additional information please
call 321-6712 or write to the
Gestalt Institute of Denver,
1264 Race St., Denver 80206.

Lesbian Resource Center

Meets every second and
fourth Sunday. Holds CR groups
Friday at 7:30 p.m. Boulder.
Call 494-5306 for information.

Mommie and Me

This is a program designed for
mother and child to enjoy gym
activities or swimming together.
In the first half of the morning
the emphasis is on physical
activities while the remaining
time is scheduled for discussion
on topics of concern to mothers.
Also during this time the
children are involved in art,
music, storytelling, and creative
dramatics. There are sessions on
Mondays and Wednesdays from
9:30-11:45 a.m. (the next
session begins on March 18-10).
For more information and
registration call Ceci Wells
(986-3797) or Jean Hoffman
(922-3295).

More for Women

This organization at Colorado
Women’s College offers classes
and workshops for women in
the community. Emphasis is on
low-cost, lively topics both in
matters of concern to women
and in sports. Project Open
Door allows class participants to
learn about career and volunteer
opportunities for women in
Denver. Real estate for single
women, interior design, art for
pre-school children are also
featured. We are located at 115
Whatley Chapel in Denver. Call
394-6825 for further
information.

Re-engagement Program

To help meet the needs of many
women who have been unable to
obtain a college degree at the
traditional college age, Colorado
Women’s College has initiated
the Re-Engagement Program.
This program is geared to the
woman over 25 who wants an
opportunity to return to formal
degree study or to attend college
for the first time. A woman can
elect to carry an academic load
which meets her working and/or
family obligations. There is also
a possibility for non-graded
classes and a Child Care Center is
also available. For more
information contact Ms. Nancy
Scott at CWC, 394-6867.

Research Center on Women

Established in 1965, the RCW is  
located on the third floor of the  
Library of Loretto Heights  
College. The center contains  
over 1,500 books and a  
collection of articles,  
manuscripts, and audio-visual  
materials on the subject of  
women. In addition, a  
monograph series is published  
and sold to a wide distribution  
of persons, libraries, and  
companies across the nation.  
The center encourages research  
and sponsors educational  
programming that provides  
information about past and  
present societally defined roles  
of women and examines new  
attitudes, roles, behavior  
patterns and lifestyles for both  
women and men in their  
personal and professional lives.  
3000 S. Federal Blvd., Denver,  
922-4011.

University of Colorado Women’s  
Center

The Women’s Center was  
established to provide services to  
university women—students,  
staff, faculty, and  
Boulder-Denver community  
women. We provide counseling,  
workshops in decision-making in  
life planning, testing and  
personal assessment, financial  
aid, an information service as  
well as academic and vocational  
information. The Women’s  
Center is located in the  
University Memorial Center,  
Room 334 in Boulder. Our  
phone number is 443-2211,  
extension 7523.

Virginia Neal Blue Resource  
Centers For Colorado Women

These centers were established  
by the Colorado Commission on  
the Status of Women. The  
administrative headquarters  
opened in February 1972 and  
since that time branches have  
been opened in Alamosa,  
Colorado Springs, Denver,  
Grand Junction and Pueblo.  
Each center serves women of all  

ages and all economic  
backgrounds from the local  
community, and the  

administrative headquarters  
coordinates the work of the  
branch centers to provide for an  
effective state-wide effort on  
behalf of the women of  
Colorado. The centers provide  
services free of charge and are  
non-profit, tax-exempt and  
funded by contributions from  
individuals and organizations  
who are interested in and  
concerned about the special  
needs of women. For more  
information write Virginia Neal  

Blue Resource Centers for  
Colorado Women,  
Administrative Headquarters,  
Room 6, Pulliam Hall, Colorado  
Women’s College, Montview and  
Quebec, Denver, 80220, or call  
us at 399-8303.

Women’s Institute of Alternative  
Women’s Rugby

Women’s Resource Center

Psychotherapy.

We are presenting an  
eight-part seminar on  
“Psychotherapy for Women”  
which began Feb. 25 at 7:30  
p.m. The seminar is taught by  
Ann Wilson Chase, former  
Internist Trainer with the  
Menninger Clinic, and covers  
what to look for, and what to  
avoid, as a woman seeking  
counseling or psychotherapy. A  
major in psychology isn’t  
necessary. For more information  
call Ms. Wilson at 321-8430.

Women in the Arts  
Women In Transition  
255-2435.  
Formed by Arlene Green and  
Janet McLaughlin of Women’s  
Transition House, this group is  
open to women at all levels of  
serious artistic interest. The  
group’s immediate goal is to  
organize a spring show and a  
long-range goal is to rent space  
for a Women’s Art Center,  
which would function as a  
gallery and as a place to hold  
workshops in visual and  
performing arts. If you are  
interested in getting your work  
shown (and sold), interested in  
setting up a Women’s Art  
Center, or just interested in  
talking about what it means to  
be a woman and an artist, come  
to a meeting, Tuesday at 8 p.m.,  
1895 Lafayette. Or call Janet  
McLaughlin, 255-2435, or Kim  
Branscombe, 355-8950.

Women’s Union

Meets Sunday night. Located  
at 1895 Lafayette, 255-2435.

Womanpower, Inc.

This organization is set up  
as a non-profit corporation to  
help find jobs for women. Our  
office at 2475 Broadway, No. 12  
in Boulder is open from 12:00  
noon to 4:00 p.m. for interviews.  
We ask that our clients  
telephone for an appointment  
and we spend at least half an  
hour talking to each woman  
who comes in. We charge no fee  
and are funded by interested  
institutions and businesses. We  
may be reached at 442-5468.

Woman in the World

This is an eight-week course (2  

credits) which is offered at  
Loretto Heights every spring.  
The course provides an  
opportunity for analyzing  
societal expectations of women,  
psychological, sociological, and  
educational aspects of these  
expectations. This course can  
be a critical investigation of  
the myths and realities of being  
a woman in the 1970s and  
identifies the new  
behavioral patterns and life  
styles that are emerging. Guest  
speakers, films, readings,  
research reports, and discussion  
constitute the resources for the  
course.

to publicize any group whose  

THE DAY BEFORE

A GRAPHIC DATEBOOK OF OUR FEMALE ANCESTORS

A PAGE FOR EVERY WEEK IN 1974

A 1974 CALENDAR FOR WOMEN: Photos by  
52 ILLUSTRATIONS OF OUR MATRIARCHAL  
Thirteen photos of women printed in brown on heavy white paper. Each photo can be easily removed and is suitable for framing. Spiral bound, 10” X 13”  
$2.50 ONE QUOTE FOR EACH WEEK TO HELP YOU  
DISCOVER THE BEAUTY OF FEMALE CULTURE THROUGHOUT THE YEAR

Both the calendar and datebook can be ordered from:  
DIANA PRESS, 72 W. 25th St., Baltimore, Md, 21218.  
$3.50

10

Need for Midwives,

Training Facilities

Barbara Hume

Health care for women in our
society is profoundly affected
by and connected to the generally
deplorable state of the U.S.
health empire. Women’s health
is further complicated by the
fact that we are unique both
because of physiology and be-
cause of the social status we
have been granted in this soci-
ety. The most blatant area has
been the takeover of the obstet-
rical and gynecological fields by
men. Historically this occurred
with the introduction of forceps
and other surgical procedures,
and concomitantly with the
realization that this was a field
where money could be made.
This is the most important area
for us to reclaim, not only for
the sake of pride, but for the
sake of better care of our
bodies.

One crucial step in the return
to medical care of women by
women is the legalization and
support of midwives. Sweden,
the Netherlands, Norway, and at
least eleven other countries do a
better job than we do of
delivering babies as judged by
such statistical measurements as
the infant mortality rate. In all
of these countries except Cana-
da, the well-trained midwife
plays a central role in childbirth
education and delivery. In the
world as a whole, 80% of babies
are delivered by midwives as
compared to 1% in this country.

Since Sweden has the lowest
infant mortality rate in the
world, I would like to quickly
review the procedure followed
there. Ninety percent of preg-
nant women make a first visit to
the doctor during the first three
months of pregnancy. If no
problems are detected, the wo-
man is assigned to a midwife

Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon,
co-authors of the book
Lesbian/Woman, will speak at
the CUDC auditorium (Room
214), 14th and Arapahoe, on
Friday, April 5th at 7:30 pm.
The event is jointly sponsored
by the Gay Coalition of Denver,
the Denver chapter of the
National Organization for
Women, and the Office of
Student Affairs at CUDC. A $1
donation is requested.

who gives careful prenatal care
with extensive teaching and
home visits. This midwife almost
always delivers the child. Mem-
branes are rarely ruptured, drugs
to induce labor are rare and
instruments are less commonly
used. Many political and social
factors influence this high sur-
vival rate, but good teaching and
care by a skilled nurse midwife
oriented toward preventive
health care is certainly one
important aspect.

In 1971, the patriarchs of our
bodies, the American College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists
(only 3% women), finally recog-
nized that since 15% of residency
positions were unfilled, maybe
midwives had a place and would
not rob them of all their
substantial fees. Since that time,
every state except Colorado has
legalized midwifery though
many laws still need further
revision. A group of nurses in
this area is now working to get
an interpretation through the
State Board of Nursing and the
Nurse Practice Act which would
broaden the status of nurse
practitioners in the field of
midwifery to allow them to
fully use their extensive training.
The outcome of this should be
known by April. If the current
strategy fails, check Big Mama
Rag in May for what we can all
do to help counter the estab-
lished patriarchal, dollar-minded
system.

Once the legal right of mid-
wives to practice is finally won,
a bigger hurdle may be reversing
some of the prejudices left from
an era of untrained “grannies”
(some great, some deplorable).
We need to look at what a
midwife is today and why she
can give care not only equal to
that given by an obstetrician,
but in most cases better. So put
away any stories you heard from
your grandmother and get ready
to hear a lot more about the
kind of care women in many
countries already have access to,
and the kind of care we all need
and deserve.

One other very large problem
is going to be training. There are
currently only 1,400 American
trained midwives with only 70
new midwives graduated in 1972.
So be alert too for opportunities
to support the expansion of
training programs.

If you have information or
questions, please send them on
so we can get a dialogue going.
I'll be glad to send a good long
list of references to any of you
interested. Most important write
and let us know what you're
interested in hearing more about
or what your problems have
been in the field of women’s
health.

892-1172

gc blz

B. 17th
S

SUL hand-painted pots, toys, clothing
and jewelry

DF PAINTINGS

AVOMITE

Fe oTinGs ae

G405 E. COLFAX AVE. DENVER, CO. 80220
Open Mon-Sat 10-8:00 ($303) 333-8771

Big Mama Rag Vol. 2- No. 6

MSC Offers
Women's
Classes

Nancy Heine

Metropolitan State College
offers Denver Area women one
of the first local Women’s
Studies programs.

Beginning in spring, 1972 with
a class entitled ‘Women,
Feminism and Literature”, the
program has expanded to
include fourteen classes in seven
subject fields.

Both women and men
students enroll in classes which
trace women’s role from an
historic, political, psychological,
artistic or sociological point of
view.

The program, according to a
recent statement from its
director Dr. Barbara Blansett,
“is aimed at heightening
women’s awareness of
themselves as human beings,
with all the dignity and
potential inherent therein.”

The interdisciplinary courses
are designed to make students
aware that women’s “role in
today's society is based not on
biological necessity, but upon
cultural biases.”

The MSC Women’s Studies
Program is, as of fall, 1973,
under the Center for Urban
Affairs. Most of its course
offerings are listed under
Women’s Studies in the school's
catalog but a few remain listed
under various other
departments.

Six faculty members together
with six students were elected
fall quarter to democratically
decide the direction of the
program. Financing, courses,
publicity and hiring are
discussed several times during
each quarter by the Women’s
Studies Council.

The program gives three $100
Colorado Scholars’ scholarships
quarterly to students who
participate in Women’s Studies
and who are academically
qualified.

Courses to be offered in the
spring include: "Introduction to
Women's Studies’, ‘Sociology
of Women’s Roles’, ‘Eve Image
in Literature’, “T’ai Chi
Chu’uan” and possibly “Women
in American History.”

THE MILITANT
BOOKSTORE— is holding an
International Women’s Day
Forum and panel discussion on
Friday, March 15, at 8 pm. They
are asking for a one dollar
donation, 1203 California St.

11

Becky Bohannan

The Women’s Movement, be-
sides working to obtain equal
rights for women, is also trying
to educate people to the cause
in the hopes of eventually
abolishing chauvinistic views to-
ward women. In attempting to
achieve this goal, one important
group has been continually for-
gotten. No strong effort has
been made to reach high school
students. As a high school
student myself, I am naturally
more aware of this often forgot-
ten group. So during the first

week of February, I conducted a

survey at three Denver area high
schools (Aurora Central, George
Washington, and Cherry Creek),
and interviewed 127 high school
students about their views to-
ward women and the feminist
movement.

Only 23% Agree

The majority (83%) of the
students interviewed were aware
of the movement and its basic
goals. But when asked if they
agreed with these goals, only
22% said yes. Fifty-three per-
cent said they agreed with some
(generally equal pay for equal
work), and a whole 25% gave a
flat no. These statistics and
many comments such as, “Basi-
cally their goals are very sound,
yet some of these women tend
to be more zealous in reaching
these goals and so have a habit
of making asses of themselves,”
and “...I get pretty scared
sometimes not knowing what
they are going to do next!”,
demonstrate that many students
have the idea that ‘women’s
libbers’ are loud, aggressive,
wild women. A good number of
them think feminists are trying
to become superior to men.

High School Women

The women were asked if
they planned on becoming a
housewife or having a career.
Fifty percent said they wanted a
career, 32% said they wanted
both, and only 9% said they
wanted to be a housewife. Yet
when asked if they felt the
movement had affected them,
only 31% said yes.

This discrepancy was also true
with the men. When asked if
they would object to their wife
working when they marry, fully
80% answered no. But only 23%
said the movement had affected
their views toward women.

Not Aware

An explanation of this might
possibly be that high school
students ranging in age from
14-18 years old have grown up
with the movement and thus
have not been fully aware of its
effects on them. “The Feminine
Mystique” was published in 1963
and the National Organization
for Women was formed in ‘66;
the public generally became
aware of the movement by
about ‘68 or ‘69. So we were
growing up while all of these
ideas were being discussed and
debated. During our impression-
able years, women have been
vocalizing and we absorbed at
least some of what they were
saying without realizing it. If the
students interviewed had been in
high school in the fifties or even
early sixties, their answers in all
probability would have been
very different. Most of the
women would have wanted to
be a housewife and most of the
men would have objected to
their wife’s working. So there is
little doubt that the movement
has affected them.

Feminism -

High school students need to
be reached. Lately many non-
sexist children’s books have
been written, and women are
fighting school districts to get
textbooks revised. This is all
extremely necessary, but these
books are not going to affect the
current group of high school
students. They'll do wonders for
children ten to fifteen years
younger than we. But it’s
difficult to find feminists who
are trying to reach high school
people. So far the only informa-
tion high school students have
about the movement has been
supplied by the media. Of
course, a few had gone beyond
this and discovered what it’s
really all about, but the majority
have not. Thus they hold a very
distorted view of feminism and
the movement. Is the feminist
movement willing to just sit
back and watch another genera-
tion grow up with the same
chauvinistic attitudes toward
women as the last?

It’s a disturbing face when
25% of the students interviewed
still believe the male sex is
superior. It’s frustrating to hear
a woman say a feminist is
“someone who wants to be a
man but can’t ‘cause they don’t
look like one.” These views do
not have to exist. If women
involved in the struggle could
only spend a little time working
to erase such attitudes, then
possibly a few years from now if
another survey is taken, more
students when asked how they
would depict a feminist would
simply reply as one woman did,
“a woman who wants to be a
person.”

Farah Women Fight and Win

Women compose 80% of the
employees at the Farah Manu-
facturing Co. in El Paso, Texas,
mostly Mexican American wo-
men. On May 3, 1972, 3,000 of
these workers walked off their
jobs in protest of the arbitrary
firing of six organizers for the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers
of America.

As far back as 1970, the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers
of America won an election in
the cutting room of the Farah
Co. In 1972 the union was
recognized as the official bar-
gaining agent by the National
Labor Relations Board. Not
only did the company refuse to
bargain with the union, but they
proceeded to fire the people
who were legally organizing for
the union in other areas of the
company. This action precipitat-
ed the walk-out which has lasted
close to two years.

On Monday, January 28,
1974, another decision was hand-
ed down by Walter Maloney, a
NLRB judge. In this sweeping
decision in favor of the workers,
Maloney accuses the Farah Co.
of wholesale lawlessness and he
“grants virtually all the relief
sought by the workers and the
union.” (Denver Post, Jan. 29,
1974)

The company was ordered to
rehire the six workers and
restore all back pay since the
time of their firing.

Recently the company
agreed to a card check among the
employees. There was support
for the union by 67 percent of
those voting. Consequently, Far-
ah has recognized the Amalga-
mated Clothing Workers of
America as the official bargaining
agent for the workers. The
official announcement was issued
on Sunday, February 24. The
company and the union will
negotiate a contract, and all
striking workers will be back on
their jobs in the near future. To
celebrate the success of the
strike, the Denver local of the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers
of America will be holding a
Farah Strikers Victory Rally on
Tuesday, March 19, at 7:30 p.m.
at the Laborers’ Hall, 875 Elati.
Come and join in the festivities.

RIP BOOKSTORE

737 E. 17th Ave.

LARCH WIDOWS SECTION
ALSO BOOKS ON GAY LIBERATION,
VIETNAM, MARXISM,
ANARCHISM, U.S. IMPERIALISM,

ALL BOOKS 20% OFF AT
ALL TIMES

Monday
Tuesday - Saturday 12-9

```
Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

SUBSCRIBE!  

Name:  

Address:  

$5.00 one year sub  
$3.00 to Women’s Institutions  
$.40 back copies  

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  
```

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 2, no. 6, Apr. 1974. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/KRAZJDO50143726/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-  
AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.