35¢

October 1974

Inside:
November Women’s
Poetry Contest—
A Feminist A

©
2
O
on
©
Q.
.@)
e)
3
©
=
~"
i
\e)
c
—<
—
®

A Working Class

Perspective:

One Woman’s Personal Account

INTRODUCTION

There are some things that have to be said about class issues and they have to be said now. Some of us are getting hurt, a lot of us are getting angry, and it has to stop. What is happening is that middle - and upper-class sisters are laying heavy trips on working class women. I want to deal with that problem, and there is a lot to say about it. Most of it is painful, and more of it is easy. I am very grateful to Big Mama Rag for expressing an interest in class struggle and for allowing working class women the chance to be heard. Few others have listened at all.

I have decided, after a great deal of thought about it, to remain anonymous, for several reasons. First, I would be personally embarrassed for anyone to make special exceptions for me because of my struggles. Second, the purpose of this article is to reveal some of the gut issues of class struggle, not to air my personal grievances against an unjust society. Other opinions on the class issue as it relates to Feminism are wholeheartedly welcomed.

The only way I can deal with this issue is to draw on my own experience and consciousness. For me, this begins with an analysis of my childhood and what that has meant to my life.

I was plenty aware of class status when I was a kid, because we didn’t have any -- or if we did, it was at the very bottom. I grew up poor, the oldest of 4 children, in small midwestern farming towns. My father was a salesman and he never did very well until I was in high school and he and my mother started teaching school. Until then, we moved around a lot, like about once a year or more often. My mother worked at odd jobs, took in laundry and mending, and went to college part-time (when we had the money) while we were growing up, so that eventually she could bring in more money for our family. My mother was definitely from a working-class background, and my father was probably lower-middle-class because he was a preacher's son, even though his parents often struggled for survival, too.

Our family struggle while I was growing up was a determined one. The only real security we had was our love for each other, and even that grew thin at times, when we got really desperate. I never had enough to eat, and I remember there was at least one long stretch where all we had to eat was bread and milk, and we were glad for that. Often I had nothing to eat at school, even though there was hot lunch, because we couldn't afford it. We never went on welfare and I think the reason was either that we never knew it existed or if my father did know, he was too proud to have accepted it. It seemed there were a lot of times we nearly starved to death or thought we would, and I know we kids at least would have been glad for anything, no matter where it came from.

My parents had firm moral convictions and a firmly ingrained Puritan work ethic. Things like lying and stealing were punished severely, and I went through one long phase of stealing where I was black and blue all the time. There was never any play until the work was all done, never any liquor in the house, and we all went to church on Sundays unless somebody was sick, which was pretty often. Even so, we had a lot of fun making up silly games and just talking about things. No matter how bad things got, we weren't going to let it get us down if we could help it. These were some of the attitudes I grew up with that influenced me greatly.

But there were other influences at work, too, that were much more devastating in their effect, and much more insidious. Being poor meant mostly shame. I never had new clothes, except when my mother would “make something over” for me. My clothes were often too big or too little, and never in style. (I vaguely knew about style, but it never mattered much whether I did or not because we couldn't have afforded it anyway.)

As a child, I never understood why other kids wouldn't play with me and why their mothers wouldn't allow me to go to their kids’ houses. I knew it had something to do with our poverty, but I knew we weren’t “white trash” either. This enforced isolation had several effects on me. It hurt me deeply and probably forever, made me angry, made me feel ashamed and somehow “not good enough.”

I fought back with street words and often with my fists. I compensated in school by working hard and getting straight A's, and thereby won at least partial respect from my teachers. But I had practically no social life as a child. We moved too often, for one thing. And everywhere we went, I was avoided, ridiculed, and generally disliked for no reason that I could see. I remember being terribly confused at these cruel reactions from my classmates. In my own eyes and in the eyes of my family, I was a bright, sensitive, imaginative child who cared very much about other people. It was hard to understand why the love I gave so readily was returned with so much hostility, lies, ridicule, and fear.

At times I toughened myself. Other times I cried. Most of the time I was shy and defensive. I played with animals, who responded easily, made up games for myself and fantasies where I was a princess and all the other kids would treat me nice and bring me presents, and I learned nature. The out-of-doors was the only world I felt at ease in, because the sky and the earth and the silent growing things did not cast me out for any reason, let alone reasons I couldn't understand.

Sometimes my intense longing for friends, companionship, and conversation made me so desperate I would set out to “be accepted or else.” I would “show them” that I could “be somebody” too. And I would try to fix myself up as clean and neat as possible and politely ask somebody to come over to my house. And maybe they would, but mostly not. I would try so hard to be liked by them, I would do anything they wanted, even stupid, demeaning things. But it never really worked the way I always imagined it would.

I remember once someone I liked very much wanted me to steal some money for her out of the teacher's desk. She said if I would, she would buy me some candy after school. I fought with my conscience half the morning, and my conscience lost. I stole the money, thinking that at last maybe this was a way somebody would be friends with me. After school, we went down to the grocery store, and she said to pick out whatever I wanted. I chose carefully and took a long time (I hardly ever got to eat candy), while she was getting impatient and said to hurry up. I did, and we went to the counter to pay for it. She paid for hers, and then came a moment of revelation I will never forget as long as I live. She told the storekeeper that I was going to pay for my own, put the rest of the money in her pocket and ran out of the store yelling, “Sucker!”

I was so horrified and embarrassed that I dropped the candy and went outside and cried. I remember thinking how I had trusted her utterly and never once imagined that she could do anything so mean and cruel. I felt betrayed and cheated, and right then, in those first hot waves of anger, I began to see the source of all the injustice and cruelty. The real source was money, because money was power, and I had none.

As a child, I saw quite clearly a world where there was no entrance for me. So many times I wanted to scream, “How do I make you see that I am a person worth listening to, worth loving? Why can’t you put away your self-importance and recognize my right to human dignity?” But I wouldn't have known how to say it then, and I was laughed at so often that I only felt it would be useless.

I was taught by my parents that the only way to overcome all the problems facing me in my life was to go to college, and I was convinced at a very early age that a college education was the only answer to an otherwise certain future of desolation and

More on Page 3

Analysis

Part 1

Why this personal account is important Although the trend is beginning to change, the women we hear from most are women from middle and upper class backgrounds. What about the real majority of women in the country -- the workers (and women who were raised in lower and working class families)? While one woman's struggle, as told here, does not purport to be representative of all working class or poverty backgrounds, its validity lies in the fact that her experiences, attitudes, and pain are a bond she shares with other working class women and which she does not share with women from other class backgrounds. We seldom hear what that feels like or how those experiences work in interaction among women. We know that experiential differences can keep us apart without us consciously realizing it. (Think for a minute who your closest friends are and what kind of background they have. Chances are, if their backgrounds are similar to yours, that you will see the truth of that statement.) We have to learn what there is about class attitudes and differences that keeps us apart, so that we can work to change things in ourselves that are destructive, and so we can understand and work with one another. This personal account is not just somebody's “sob story.” It should be the starting point for serious thought about what's going on in the feminist movement and why so many women feel excluded or alienated.

Women as a Caste

Just as problems among women from different class backgrounds create tension among us, we have to realize that this is all part of a larger oppression of women as an inferior caste in the patriarchal structure. Any perspective on class issues in the feminist movement must have as a reference point the fact that women are oppressed first as women and secondarily for their class background, among other things, such as their race or sexual preferences.

Some of the Problems

In thinking and talking about class and caste issues, women will be criticized for creating schisms in the women’s community. The problem is that they are already there.

Another problem is that in looking at value systems, we tend to make broad generalities, categorize and classify, in order to reach some of the causes of class problems. In the initial stages, we may fail to recognize that through raised consciousness, some women have managed to overcome the values, restraints, and/or oppression of their class backgrounds, and I think that is beautiful. But on the other hand, it’s very easy to think, “Well, they're not talking about me because I’m an exception,” and too often that’s just a cop-out. What

More on Page 3

Letters Home to Mama

9/6/74  
Dear Big Mama:

I am writing to protest the  
outrageous management of  
the 1st Annual Women's  
Festival at East High August  
25th. Many active women took  
time and energies from other  
pressing duties to see that  
this event was successful,  
especially in terms of funds  
being raised to make a  
women’s center a reality in  
Denver. These same women  
are pretty disappointed to find  
that this effort failed, largely  
through the irresponsible be-  
havior of a few.

First of all, commitments  
were made to individuals and  
groups without the knowledge  
or approval of the festival  
committee. Such as: (1) It had  
been clearly understood prior  
to the festival that all  
concessions would be operated  
solely by the festival  
committee, but two concession  
booths were admitted against any  
knowledge of the majority of women. This was a  
tragic blunder, as these  
booths competed directly with  
the main concessions stand  
whose intake after expenses  
went 100% to the Women’s  

Center Coalition. (2) Public  
statements were made to the  
effect that any group which  
had a booth at the festival  
would automatically become  
members of the Women’s  
Center Coalition. These  
statements were made irre-  
sponsibly in that they did not  
have the approval of the  
festival committee, and in  
fact, most members opposed  
such an idea as it did not  
allow each group to even  
CHOOSE whether they wanted  
to be part of the Coalition!  
These and other statements of  
a similar nature went a long  
way to undermine the good  
faith of the women who  
participated. (3) The admit-  
tance of such groups as  
Together Books, RIP Book-  
store, and even the “surprise”  
concessions, which under no  
circumstances could be called  
“women's organizations”,  
made it totally impractical if  
not impossible for REAL  
women's organizations to sell  
books and other materials at  
their booths and thereby  
possibly raise funds for  
themselves and for the festival  
(i.e., Women's Center).

In the planning of this  
festival, there has been a  

consistent disregard (by the  
“leadership”) for our clearly  
articulated demands for total  
accountability of everyone  
involved in the decision-mak-  
ing process. Decisions were  
consistently made by the few  
without the knowledge or  
approval of the many.  
Attempts at organization  
and communication were re-  
peatedly made by BMR, the  
Lesbian Task Force of  
N.O.W., and some other  
individuals, in the hopes of  
preventing the types of idiocy  
mentioned above. That these  
attempts only partially suc-  
ceeded is a damning fact.  
However, I am less con-  
cerned about who did what,  
than I am with the process of  
this festival. That it even came  
off at all is a thing to be proud  
of, and I do not intend to  
minimize ANYONE’S part.  
What I object to so much is  
the lack of trust between us,  
which dictates that when one  
woman makes a mistake, she  
feels afraid to admit it openly  
and share that learning  
process with others. She  
starts dealing with other  
women in the ways that she  
deals with men, excusing  

herself because of her ignor-  
ance, which is a cop-out that  
WORKS with men because  
they expect that from women.  
But BETWEEN women it is  
dishonest and dangerous.  
Any woman who needs to fall  
back on old patterns and  
processes is denying herself  
the most important experi-  
ences she may ever have --  
sharing and learning on a gut  
level with other women,  
helping and BEING helped.  
So: to the extent that we were  
not using female processes,  
we were managing the  
festival.

This is an oppressive thing  
that we do to ourselves and to  
each other all the time. WE  
ALL HAVE TO BE MORE  
OPEN TO CRITICISM FROM  
EACH OTHER SO THAT WE  
CAN HELP EACH OTHER  
GROW, EVEN IF THAT  
GROWTH IS PAINFUL BE-  
CAUSE OF OUR MISTAKES. I  
am more willing to learn if I  
know there is love, and that is  
what we have to start trusting  
if we are to build a strong and  
vital women’s community in  
Denver. The lessons from this  
festival have been hard; we  
cannot afford to ignore them.  
We all have to do some  
serious thinking about unifi-  
cation and goals in the  
coming months; in the  
process, let’s not repeat  
ourselves. In the process, let’s  
see that our learning is open,  
so that we can all share.

In love and struggle,  
Shecat

To The Denver Post:

This letter is being written  
in objection to your article on  
Big Mama Rag on page 3 of  
Sunday, September 8, 1974,  
Denver Post. The article was  
obviously biased, prejudiced  
and sexist in content, reflect-  
ing Mr. Goldman's personal  
fears. I hardly considered the  
article as objective reporting,  
and was surprised and dis-  
mayed that the Denver Post  
would even print it.

Mr. Goldman seemed to  
feel that since BMR was by  
women for women that it was  
“out to get” men. I have a  
close male friend who reads  
every issue which comes out.  
He does not feel that the  
paper is “out to get” him and  
even finds it enlightening.  
Besides, there are several  
dozens of exclusively men's  
magazines on the newsstands  
today, men are highly involved  
in many of the more tradition-  
al women’s magazines, and  
for hundreds of years men  
controlled who could read and  
write. So why is Mr. Goldman  
so fearful of one struggling  
women's newspaper?

Much was also made of Ms.  
Waters' statement that she  
was “indifferent” to men as if  
her indifference was both  
criminal and reflective of the  
attitude of BMR. Man's  
history shows he has been  
“indifferent” to women for  
thousands of years if not  
unjust, cruel, hateful and  
inhuman. And if BMR, or its  

staff, are “out to get” men,  
how can they also be  
“indifferent”? It seems incon-  
sistency is a male trait, too.

Last spring, a friend of mine  
became involved with BMR on  
a volunteer basis and then  
became one of the paid staff  
members, so I have been  
informed of the basic changes  
and objectives of BMR. Big  
Mama Rag was originally  
structured in a traditional  
manner and eventually many  
of the women involved felt a  
need for restructuring along  
less traditional lines. Through  
a desire to represent all  
women, the many women  
involved with BMR cooperated  
in love and understanding to  
create the present structure.  
My friend is now a coordina-  
tor, which precisely describes  
her activities and all women  
who wish to, may help decide  
which articles are printed in  
BMR. The paper is not  
controlled by a minority few  
as Mr. Goldman stated.

Finally, Mr. Goldman re-  
sorted to Lesbian baiting by  
reporting that BMR was  
controlled by Lesbians  
preaching separatism. Over  
the past several months, I  
have met and known many of  
these women and I find them  
intelligent, creative and with a  
high, positive energy level.  
When I am with them, I  
experience a warm love that  
accepts me and all those  
around them for who we are.  
Never during my acquaintance  
with these women have any of  
them approached me and  
preached separatism.

Since one of the more basic  
endeavors of the Women’s  
Movement is for women to  
define herself, it is my belief  
that Lesbian women may be  
best able to do this. The  
Lesbian woman is totally  
involved with and dedicated to  
women and is woman defining  
woman.

No, I am not a Lesbian, but I  
am a budding Feminist who  
cares about and loves my  
sisters. When Mr. Goldman  
attempted to discredit Big  
Mama Rag and those con-  
nected with it, he also  
attempted to discredit all  
women. This has gone on far  
too long and men had best  
realize it before they destroy  
themselves.

Sincerely yours,  
Barbara A. Main  
ec: Big Mama Rag

1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206

Working Woman’s Account...

From Page 1

Poverty. I was literally driven
by my fears to achieve as high
a goal as I could set for
myself, and I knew from the
beginning that I would have to
do it alone. There would never
be money in our family for
college, yet it was my parents’
burning hope that each of us
would go.

In my head, if I did not go to
college, it would mean that I
would never have friends,
never make a decent living,
and there was a very real fear
of starving to death in
loneliness and disgrace. (The
thing about friends was really
interesting. I thought for
many years that the only way
I would ever have friends was if
somehow I could get money
to buy nice clothes and live in
a nice house. I thought having
friends meant that you had to
have money, because that was
the message I was getting
loud and clear. This associa-
tion got me into a lot of
trouble with myself and
others, because at those rare
times when I did have a little
money, I often used it to try to
“buy” friends, and it wasn’t
until I saw that I was getting
ripped off and used that I
knew it wasn’t just the money
that was power; it was
everything that came with
money, and again I knew I was
still on the losing end of it.)

Because no one had ever
helped me before, with money
or making friends, I simply
assumed that no one ever
would. I made self-reliance a
supreme virtue, and some-
where in that process I went
through a “sour grapes” trip. I
decided that the virtues of
achievement were better than
the virtues of money (which
was actually correct thinking
but for all the wrong reasons
then), and I determined that I
would “be somebody” so
great that everyone would
have to respect me whether I
had money or not. I would
become famous (just as soon
as I worked out all the details).

All my hopes lay in the
future, and I worked very hard
to get there. I still struggled
for acceptance and friends,
but mostly to survive. I grew
up strong by myself, dream-
ing dreams of myself the way
I wanted to become, not once
thinking of failure. There was
no question in my mind that I
would make it: I had to. The
only alternative was death in

one form or another, and
since I was already living
through a very real social

“death,” no alternatives but
success were acceptable to
me. There was only one way
out, and I would get there no
matter what. The worse things
got, the harder I worked. At
the age of 11 I went to work for
real.

With my first job, at 11
years of age, came a growing
awareness of another nasty
little thing the world can
throw a person: the concept
of the inferiority of woman-
kind. I was surprised I hadn't
noticed it before, but there it
was, bigger than life.

I worked in the fields,
hoeing weeds out of bean
fields, shoveling manure, and
tending livestock. There were
a lot of things I wasn’t allowed
to do because I was a girl, and
that really made me mad. I
was taller, stronger, and
faster than any boy in my
class, and since the argument
used against “heavy” work
was that I might hurt myself,
it didn’t make any sense at all.

I set out to really prove
myself, and before long I was
working on a pony farm, doing
everything no one else wanted
to do. I threw bales, cleaned
tack (bridles, saddles, har-
ness, etc.), groomed horses
and trimmed hooves, mixed
grain, all kinds of things.
Most of the work was fun
because I felt I was helping
the animals to have a better
life, and that made me feel
good. But a lot of it was dirty
and hard, and I wondered if
“proving myself” had been
such a good idea; I was being
used in the worst way. I made
about 25 cents an hour and I
never saw a penny of it. It
went to put food on our family
table. (The most I ever made
until I was out of high school
was 85 cents an hour, and that
was working 12 to 16 hours a
day in the fields, doing
backbreaking work with only
one break, which lasted as
long as it took to eat whatever
lunch I had.)

And I did get hurt some at
my first job; a stack of bales
fell on me once, I got kicked
frequently, and several times I
was jumped on by ponies or
trampled. I never complained
to anybody, though, because
if I did I would lose my job,
and we needed the money;
also, I was learning a lot, and
that was very valuable to me. I
was only 13 then.

Since the day I first started
working, I haven't stopped.
After a while, I got to keep
some of the money, which
was great except that I used it
all wrong. At first I didn’t
realize that it was mine
because I had earned it. I
thought it was like a present
or something, and I spent it all
right away, or gave it to
someone who said they
needed it, or bought things for
other people. My parents
encouraged me to save, but it
was always such a pitiful
amount that it never seemed
to grow fast enough and there
was always something I
needed. It seemed impossible
that I would ever have
anything really big from what
I had earned, so I used it for my
own material comforts or
shims of the moment. That
seemed perfectly logical to
me, but my parents criticized
me sharply for wasting money
on things that weren’t abso-
lutely necessary. A lot of
times I listened to them, but
more often I felt that I
deserved to spend my money
any way I wanted since I'd
worked so hard to earn it.
Sometimes I felt terribly
selfish, though, for spending
money just for myself when
the rest of my family was just
as bad off as I was, and I felt
very guilty because I didn’t
share as much as I thought I
should. The fact that there
wasn’t much to share didn’t
make any difference; I was
used to that by then.

When I finally got into high
school, I discovered several
unique ways to achieve a
small amount of popularity.
The other kids were starting to
think about college then, and
since I got good grades, I
began to be “useful” at last by
helping other kids with their
school work. I was totally
aware that I was being used,
and why, but I was so glad for
some social contacts that I
didn’t care too much. Then in
our state, girls’ athletics were
very popular, and since I was
pretty good at sports, I made
varsity on all the teams and

made some friends that way.
But I was seldom asked out on
dates or to parties, and I still
felt very keenly the ostracism
of my classmates. I just
wasn’t “in,” and it was the
same story all over again. I
had no close friends, no one I
could really talk to or who
even seemed to care very
much whether I existed or not.
I worked harder than ever and
dreamed my dreams of col-
lege and future success.

The time finally came and I
was accepted to the college of
my choice, a medium-sized
state school with a good
reputation and low tuition,
and I nervously awaited to
hear about scholarships. The
college didn’t help me, but my
high school teachers did, and
I was so pleased and
embarrassed at the time I
thought I'd faint. It was only
$100, but that was a fortune to
me. I applied for work and a
government loan for the rest,
and that came through, too,
which seemed like a miracle
to me. I didn’t think I deserved
such good luck.

There I was at a major
turning point in my life -- with
the tool of college within my
reach, I was ready to build a
secure future and bury my
past forever. But I hadn't
counted on a lot of unexpect-
ed problems. Like sororities
and the incredible elitism bred
of the assumed superiority of
the middle and upper classes.
Like the fact that all the things
I thought to free myself from
confronted me more power-
fully than ever, with pressures
to conform to values I only
knew from the wrong side of
the tracks.

The things that still counted
with my classmates in college
were things I still did not
have: money, social standing,
good communication skills,
popularity. Time and again I
came across the power that
money has, when all my
friends would go out to eat, or
go shopping, or plan trips.
That was all totally impossible
for me. With stars in my eyes,
I made a bad mistake right
away. I went out for rush,
hoping to find sisterhood and
friendship with other women
in a close-knit group. The
entire process sickened me.
At rush parties I was greeted
with politeness and that was
all. My clothes were in
impossibly “poor taste”
(which was not at all
humorous to me), my man-
ners were not like anyone
else’s, and I was obviously an
“outsider” by my appearance
alone. I could not help that,
but I think then that that was
my last stand against being
judged on someone else’s
terms alone.

Others could talk about the
big money projects they were
involved in, or the car they
were going to get when they
graduated, or the house they
were going to buy, or the
clothes. All I could talk about
was if I had enough money to
eat for the rest of the week,
because that was on my mind
a lot. A lot of times I was
broke by Thursdays, and I
really tried to stretch my
money out, too. The differ-
ence between me and the
other people I knew was that
when my money was gone,
there was no more, period.
Being broke for me meant flat
broke, which, I discovered,
did not mean the same thing
More on Page 15

Analysis...

From Page 1

has to happen is for every
woman to reexamine her
entire value system, its
origins and present validity,
especially in terms of how she
relates to other women.

Another problem is that, in
the beginning of any dialogue
in relation to class, all these
angers start pouring out from
women at all levels, and in
trying to deal with the anger,
which is also valid, we get
personally defensive & side—
tracked from getting to the
real reason for everyone's
anger and tension. I really feel
that until we deal with the
reasons, we will never be able
to deal with our class
problems as sisters and begin
to relate to one another in a
freeing, supportive way. I
want us to get beyond the
issues that divide us, and in
order to do that, I think we
have to cut through all our
defenses and conditioning
and get down to gut level,
where there is pain. It would
be good to explore the pain we
share and the causes of it.
This must be done in honesty
with ourselves, and it must
begin there.

Just the fact that there ARE
angers should indicate that
the issue has not been
resolved. As a rule, when
there is anger, it means either
that someone has not lis-
tened, or that someone has
not said what they really feel.
It is time to hear what women
are angry about in terms of
class -- it’s time to get it out in
the open so that we can deal
with it and get beyond it.

I believe in women; I
believe in our strength and our
power of understanding, and I
trust in the truth of our pain.
What women need to do more
and more is to seek their roots
and to find in those roots
validity and dignity. No one
need be ashamed of the way
they were brought up; where
there is need for shame is
when we use our experiences
(or privileges) against one
another. Solving the problems
of class and caste is a giant
step toward sisterhood. That
step must be taken now, and
we must all take it together.

Part 2

The primary factors that
determine a person’s class
identity are:

1. THE WORK SHE DOES:

The bulk of work working
class women do is service,
factory, or office work, most
often low-paying and with
little hope for advancement. If
she has a family, she must
work two jobs: one in her
home and one in the labor
force. Work is a necessity for
her, not an option. The bulk of
work middle class women do
is managerial, professional,
or volunteer. For middle class
women, their work is not a
material necessity but an
attempt to achieve fulfillment
or escape boredom under the
illusion that somehow their
jobs are beneficial to the
world.

2. HER BACKGROUND:

The working class back-
ground: A woman growing up
in a working class family
knows what it is like to have
material needs. Her labor
power is important from the
time she is small, and often
she begins supporting herself
while still in her teens.
Schools and parents try to

Page 3

channel her into learning
practical skills for survival
such as home-ec and secre-
tarial skills, rather than
college-prep courses. If she
rebels against this, she learns
no skills and must work at the
lowest-paying, non-skilled
jobs or resort to prostitution.
If she aspires and goes on to
college, she finds it a
constant struggle. Because
she lacks the right contacts,
she has great difficulty
learning about loans and
scholarships and receives
little help finding employment
after graduation.

The middle class back-
ground: A woman growing up
in a middle class family learns
the skills necessary to “make
it” in the system. She learns
the proper ways of speaking
and relating to people. She
develops self-confidence
through the security of her
social environment. She is
assured of a college educa-
tion, learns what is expected
of her, and is promised a
social position. She has the
luxury of sampling the latest
fads, experimenting with dif-
ferent lifestyles, or doing
things just for the experience,
because she knows that she
can always get money from
her parents if she needs it.
When she takes a low-paying
job, it is temporary because
she has the skills, contacts
and education to either find
another job or to align herself
with a middle class man.

3. HER RELATIONSHIP WITH
MEN:

This is the most important
determinant of class identity.
The economic class system is
a hierarchy of power among
men. A woman's class identi-
ty is determined by her
relationship to men: first by
her father, later by her
husband. The higher up her
man is in the class hierarchy
the more she benefits from
the system. The wife of a
middle class man need not
work for her survival outside
of her home because she is
provided for by her husband.
She is economically depend-
ent on him. The wife of a
working class man is forced to
be economically dependent
upon herself. The family
cannot make ends meet on the
husband’s income alone.

The single woman is obvi-
ously working class (ignoring
a few token exceptions)
because women are the
lowest paid workers. Any
woman who is economically
self-dependent rather than
male-dependent lives in the
material reality of the working
class regardless of her back-
ground.

To conclude, the most
general definition of a working
class woman is one who is
economically self-dependent.

Part 3

At the Big Mama Rag
meetings on class-consciousness very little progress
was made in developing cre-
ative theory and action pro-
grams. Every time a working-
class woman began to relate
her pain about her class
oppression, such as the
printed personal account in
this issue, a middle-class
woman would reply that she
was not responsible. She was
not an oppressor, she was not

More on Page 15

Page 4

The Denver Post in its issue of Sunday, September 8, published a feature article about Big Mama Rag. The article, in the best tradition of patriarchal arrogance, was a smear intended to discredit not only BMR but the women’s community of Denver and the entire Feminist movement. It is important to realize that the Post article, as written, passed the editor's desk with an okay for publication. This must be recognized as the attitude and position of The Denver Post toward Feminism.

Utilizing tactics of classism, Lesbian-baiting, out-of-context quotes, rampant misrepresentation of facts and innuendo, the article portrayed our women’s newspaper as a narrow-interest publication. (Fact: BMR provides national, regional, and local coverage relating to Feminist theory, women's poetry, women’s health, welfare rights and legislation, Lesbian issues, book reviews, NOW activities, union women's activities, media analysis and community announcements.) By the time UPI had “whispered down the aisle” a Philadelphia radio station named Chocolate Waters as the editor when in fact we have none, and a Houston newspaper called Ronnie Martin the only man on our staff, when in fact we have none.

It is apparent that the Post has at last felt the power and influence of a growing and active women’s community in this city; felt it as a threat. And rightly so. A recent Denver Post devoted four of its eighty-eight pages to women’s news. Over 50% of this space was given to advertising. The copy included fashion news, engagement announcements, news of a home decorators show and Ann Landers’ column, with less than one page of articles actually relevant to women as women.

Reacting out of fear, The Denver Post is contributing strongly to an already hostile political climate in Denver. As the women's movement grows this type of counter-action can be expected to increase. It is important that we have a clear understanding of what is happening and that we not be intimidated or divided by the defensiveness and smear attempts we will encounter.

The Post, realizing the necessity and power of effective communication to a growing movement, made an attempt to cut the heart out of Denver Feminism. By striking at what it considered to be the soft underbelly of Feminism (Lesbianism), the Post attempted to destroy one of our major exchange mediums and thus seriously curtail Feminist communication in Denver.

Through letters to the editor and cancellation of subscriptions we can show the Post (and other media interests) that the Denver women’s community cannot be so easily trampled or brushed aside.

The Post has performed two invaluable services for Denver Feminists: first, it has clearly revealed the position and depth of resistance we must overcome in order to realize Feminist principles in Denver; secondly, it has shown us the type of tactics which will be used against us; i.e., name-calling and traditional appeals to the standard bigotry against anyone who is not white, not male, not middle class and not supporting patriarchy.

the second wave A MAGAZINE OF THE NEW FEMINISM

Box 344, Cambridge A Cambridge, MA 02139 Vol. 3 No. 4

corporate child care

* for a year sub (4 issues). Start my sub with issue NO. _______ $7.50 + $2.50 postage for 1 copy of issue no. _______

name ______________________________________________________

address ____________________________________________________

city ______________ state ___________ zip ___________________

“add $1. outside of USA; $7.50 airmail overseas

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

To the Man Reporter from the Denver Post

Chocolate Waters

I knew from the start it was a mistake to talk to you—

Six Radical Feminists and the Man of the Press and his frightened photographer with the evil eye.

Even with those odds we were outnumbered.

But you expected us to be reasonable to defer to you as a man and a member of the Almighty Male Media to explain our position logically, to smile a lot.

After all we are living in a civilized world:

RECALL a picture of a woman hunched up on top of her knees, her mouth awry, the red blood rolling around her ankles like falling red stones with nowhere to go.

She is naked.

She is also dead.

The victim of an “abortionist” who already had all the money she could borrow tucked inside his shirt pocket when he left her there.

RECALL the housewife married 25 years to a man who called her Lard Butt because she ate a lot remembering the time when she had no food because her alcoholic father drank it all up. Married to a man who wanted to punch her frequently for being “stupid” and often did, then sat at his supper table like a king saying, “The potatoes are lumpy. You've burned the roast. and I’M the one who likes cream in my coffee. We see it every day on TV - only in your version she’s the buffoon.

RECALL a young woman in the dormitory of a midwestern university lying unobtrusively on the floor with a broom handle rammed so murderously up between her legs that her intestines were hanging out her mouth like tiny penises in reminder—

It was not an isolated incident.

RECALL an old woman run over under the wheels of an Army truck driven by a young GI who could’ve been anybody's brother. Fleeing from her burning hut, she was a gook and the Enemy anyway; the story wasn't newsworthy.

RECALL a Lesbian woman whose face was torn apart by the irate husband of a straight friend. He claimed she had designs on his woman over coffee. She took the case to court.

“Are you a Lesbian?” the judge said. “Yes,” she said.

“Case dismissed,” he said. He didn’t say it would've been just as OK had he killed you. (The story did not make front-page news).

RECALL the 19th century sailors who captured an island full of Polynesian women - dragged them on their ships and brutalized and raped them, then tossed them overboard to drown. And when to the men’s surprise the women swam, the sailors shot them through the heads for sport with bullet holes arranged by one click of one finger pulled through weapons resembling pricks and talking louder.

It only took us 200 years to find this out.

RECALL NINE MILLION WOMEN tortured individually as witches over a period of FOUR HUNDRED YEARS which we never read three lines about in all your scholarly history books.

RECALL the disc jockeys of Every Major City in This Country who laugh at women 100 times a broadcast: “I was going to do a bit about the groupie as bowwow, but I lost the dog...” or “And there we have Helen Reddy singing ‘I Am Woman,’ the national anthem of Women’s Lib - Can you imagine saluting a broad on a flagpole?...”

Can you imagine a woman doing any of these things?

Because she hates men as you and your kind have hated women since the beginning of the time you first appeared on this earth?

Yet there you sit in your 20th century casuals—casually—with a notebook in your hands. Your hands writing busily. Your hands that are so clean they never dirty anything more than newsprint. Your mouth working rapidly. In the midst of six women-identified-women you say, “So first you get freedom for Blacks, then for women, then for Lesbians, then for rapists, then for axe-murderers. Now isn’t that carrying the argument to absurdity?”

Well, of course not. Anyone knows that it is completely reasonable to classify Lesbians with axe-murderers (though personally I have never known either a rapist or an axe-murderer who was a woman).

So we don’t smile at you. And you are shocked when we talk about the “boys and their games” (and you think THAT'S discrimination!)

Shocked when we say we are indifferent to you.

So shocked that you are compelled to write about “Lesbian bombardment and man-hating polemics.”

After you’ve said that the “women with beehive hairdos are really the enemy.” (You should look to your own polemics.)

The night after your article appeared in the Denver Post someone called me on the phone and said,

“Are you that man-hating lezzy Chocolate Waters? You're the one I want. I'm going to rape you and murder you.”

Six months ago someone called my sister on the phone 1600 miles away. She is not a Lesbian. She is not even quite a woman yet.

The voice said,

“Is your name Tena Waters? You're the one I want. I'm going to rape you and murder you.”

Neither voice belonged to a woman wearing a beehive hairdo...

More on Page 17

Page 5

Colorado Labor Union Women Move to  
Organize the Unorganized.

Women trade unionists  
from as diverse unions as the  
United Rubber Workers, the  
American Federation of  
Teachers, the Amalgamated  
Clothing Workers and the  
American Postal Workers Un-  
ion met together September  
14 to found the Denver chapter  
of the Coalition of Labor  
Union Women (CLUW).

CLUW was founded at a  
national convention in Chica-  
go in March of this year where  
3,200 union women from 58  
national and international  
unions attended. The stated  
purposes of the organization  
are to increase women’s  
participation in their unions,  
to press for reforms for  
women through legislative  
and political action, to initiate  
affirmative action programs  
and to aid in the organizing of  
unorganized women into the  
union movement.

Since the founding conven-  
tion, women in New York, De-  

troit, Seattle, Washington  
D.C., Los Angeles and other  
cities across the country have  
successfully held founding  
conferences to establish local  
CLUW chapters. The signifi-  
cance of the organization lies  
in the fact that it brings many  
of the issues raised by the  
women’s liberation movement  
into the realm of working  
women who up until now have  
often felt that the women’s  
movement was not concerned  
with their problems. The  
Coalition hopes to give rank  
and file union women a voice  
in their unions and on their  
jobs.  
The September 14 Denver  
meeting drew about 60 women  
from about 25 different locals  
in the area. The meeting laid  
out the basic purpose of the  
organization, described the  
procedure necessary to be-  
come a chartered CLUW  
chapter, and began a discus-  
sion of the difficulties faced in  

COALITION OF LABOR UNION WOMEN  
STATEMENT OF PURPOSE  

(As adopted at the founding  
conference, March 23-24)

Of the 34 million women in  
the work force-- little more  
than four million women are  
members of unions. It is  
imperative that within the  
framework of the union move-  
ment, we take aggressive  
steps to more effectively  
address ourselves to the  
critical needs of 30 million  
unorganized sisters and to  
make our unions more re-  
sponsive to the needs of all  
women, especially the needs  
of minority women who have  
been singled out for particu-  
larly blatant oppression.

Women unionists work in  
almost every industry, in  
almost every part of the  
country. Despite their geo-  
graphical, industrial and oc-  
cupational separations, union  
women share common con-  
cerns and goals.

Full equality of opportuni-  
ties and rights in the labor  
force require the full attention  
of the labor movement...and  
especially, the full attention  
of women who are part of the  
labor movement.

The primary purposes of  
this new national coalition is  
to unify all union women in a  

viable organization to deter-  
mine, first - our common  
problems and concerns, and,  
second - to develop action  
programs within the frame-  
work of our unions to deal  
effectively with our object-  
ives. Through unity of pur-  
pose, the Coalition of Labor  
Union Women will seek to  
accomplish these goals. We  
recognize that our struggle  
goes beyond the borders of  
this nation and seek to link up  
with our working sisters and  
brothers throughout the world  
through concrete action of  
international workers’ solidar-  
ity.  
ORGANIZING THE  
UNORGANIZED WOMEN  

Since less than twelve  
percent of the women in  
today’s labor force are en-  
rolled in labor unions, it is  
obvious that most working  
women are suffering eco-  
nomically. Statistics clearly  
demonstrate that the union  
member enjoys higher wa-  
ges, better fringe benefits and  
working conditions and great-  
er job security than the unor-  
ganized worker. The Coalition  
of Labor Union Women seeks  
to promote unionism and to  
encourage unions to be more  

aggressive in their efforts to  
bring unorganized women  
under collective bargaining  
agreements, particularly in  
those areas where there are  
large numbers of unorganized  
and/or minority women.  
CLUW will seek to create a  
greater awareness of the  
benefits of union member-  
ship. Within our intra-, inter-,  
and emerging union structure,  
we will work to encourage  
non-union women to join us in  
the trade union movement.  
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN  
THE WORKPLACE  
Employers continue to pro-  
fit by dividing workers on  
sexual, racial and age lines.  
This encourages the segrega-  
tion of job classifications and  
results in wage and benefit  
losses to women. The power  
of unions must increasingly  
be brought to bear, through  
the process of collective  
bargaining, to correct these  
inequities. The Coalition will  
seek to encourage women,  
through their unions, to  
recognize and take positive  
action against job discrimina-  
tion in hiring, promotion,  
classification and other as-  
pects of work. Women must  
learn what their rights are  

under the law. They must  
become more knowledgeable  
of the specifics of collective  
bargaining and of the contract  
clauses and workplace  
practices which discriminate  
against them. They must be  
informed about what is and  
can be done within the labor  
movement to correct these  
situations. We seek to edu-  
cate and inspire our union  
brothers to help achieve  
affirmative action in the  
workplace.  
POLITICAL ACTION  
AND LEGISLATION  

It is imperative that union  
women, through action pro-  
grams of the Coalition,  
become more active partici-  
pants in the political and  
legislative processes of our  
union and our unions. Move-  
ment for full employment, and  
job opportunities, shorter  
work week without loss of  
pay, child care legislation, a  
livable minimum wage for all  
workers, improved maternity  
and pension benefits, im-  
proved health and safety  
coverage, expanded educa-  
tional opportunities, mass  
action for final ratification of  
the Equal Rights Amendment  
(ERA), guaranteed collective  

bargaining rights for all  
workers, the right to strike  
and an extension of truly  
protective legislation for all  
workers are only a few of the  
political action programs in  
which CLUW must partici-  
pate. Whenever and wherever  
possible CLUW urges all  
women to seek election to  
political office.  
PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN  

WITHIN THEIR UNIONS  

The Coalition seeks to  
inspire and educate union  
women to ensure and  
strengthen their participation,  
through full and complete  
democratic procedures, to  
encourage their leadership  
and their movement into  
policy-making roles within  
their own unions and within  
the union movement in all  
areas. The Coalition supports  
the formation of women’s  
committees and women's  
caucuses within trade unions  
wherever necessary.

Page 6

WOMEN &
Shells

a column

Artemis

As our consciousness is being collectively raised by one
another; as we fill a womanspace fuller of our needs in areas like
midwifery, herbery, music, art; as we come closer each day to
what it truly is to be women, it strikes me funny that we are
ignoring a basic part of that journey -- total health.

I'm speaking about going beyond self-examinations,
home-deliveries and herbal medicine. To Being exactly what the
Great Mother Goddess made us to be in every way. I won't
elaborate on that idea as a whole now, however I do want to deal
with one specific.

Smoking, no matter how you look at it, is destructive, not
only to the individual doing it but all who are in her vicinity.

I would like to take issue with the politics behind cigarette
smoking. First and foremost it’s the Man's vice, designed to be an
eternal profitmaker for such warmongers as American Tobacco
Company. One of the many legal vices that the people empty their
pocketbooks over the privilege of consuming. Second, it’s a
pacifier, one of the many offered to us from birth, rubber
pacifiers, suckers -- to keep us in our place, keep us from
speaking up, giving us a false sense of security. Third, it keeps
hands busy, more often than not, too busy to be doing more
constructive things. Many manage to smoke and perform a myriad
of tasks at the same time, little realizing what a psychic drain it is
to be doing two or more things at a time.

Cigarettes have the curious property of being a stimulant
and a depressant at the same time. Although not a stimulant in
the purest sense, many use cigarettes either consciously or
unconsciously to stay awake or to wake up. How many late night
meetings, parties or rap sessions would survive without nicotine?
How many people could go on spending money in America's bars
without falling asleep were it not for the shock treatment received
each time a cigarette is smoked? Although not a depressant in the
purest sense, bear in mind the numerous people who ward off
hunger and weight gain by lighting up. During times of stress and
nervousness, the air is clouded with a continuous stream of smoke
that dulls the senses out of awareness. Awareness of a stressful
situation is essential in learning how to deal with it and feeling
that stress often motivates people to avoid making a mistake a
second time.

Some very primary senses are dulled also, like that of smell.
Deadened olfactory nerves will not serve a person when needed
to experience the full pleasure of an apple blossom. The olfactory nerve’s
partner in delight, the taste bud, combine to give pleasure in
culinary indulgence. This pleasure is far from what it could be for
the smoker. I'm not sure how much credence you would lend to
my belief that even the clarity of hearing and sight are impaired
but all would agree that there is little to compare with a heavy dose
of fresh mountain air and clean lungs enhancing this delight a
hundredfold.

I figure by now anyone who is at all concerned with their
health and the health of their loved ones is still reading. I’m not
communicating with you to proselytize or be self-righteous. I
know full well that people stop hurting themselves only when they
are ready to and all of the information or scare tactics in the world
isn't going to change that. In some ways I can understand where
smokers are at, I smoked for 10 years and I will not climb my
soapbox about inconsiderate smokers.

The purpose of this essay is to point out how we as women
are being robbed of a more total life by indulging as individuals in
a counter-productive vice. Imagine if you will, as I do, a world where
people gained the self-love and control to stop putting these
tubular objects in our mouths, applying flame and then inhaling
dignity out of our lives.

- ROC THER

Books
Women’s Life and Work in the Southern Colonies. A decade later, her
research at last completed, the book was published by the
University of North Carolina Press.
W.W. Norton & Co., New York, 1972. Anyone reading this 400-
page volume will absorb colonial daily life from the
founding of the colonies to plantation, small farm and
city. The large questions of why women came and where
they lived are answered, as well as the small ones like
what was in a colonial bedroom, and what were
household necessities and luxuries. Generalities are
supported by inventories of large estates, letters and
memoirs.

Julia Cherry Spruill began
her lengthy research on
female colonial life in 1927
with a grant from the Institute
for Research in Social Science.

One of the classics of
American social history,
Women’s Life and Work in the
Southern Colonies, first pub-
lished in 1938, was finally
reissued in 1972, when the
time of history caught up with
the book.

Julia Cherry Spruill delves
into the minutiae that makes
the past come alive: colonial
women's leisures and pas-
times, their wardrobes and
accessories - where, how and
from what they were made.
She tells of the rituals of
courtship and marriage, of
southern women’s education
and the contents of a typical
lady’s library.

Women’s Life deals, in
addition, with the lesser-
known aspects of the female
situation in the colonial era. In
detail she tells of the women
who participated in public life.
There was Mistress Margaret
Brent, a plantation owner in
Maryland so powerful as to
demand a seat in the
Assembly at a time when
women weren't even allowed
to speak in church! There
were female ferry-keepers,
jailers, printers, and many
other “non-feminine” occupations in which the feminine
were actively engaged. Women of all classes were
shopkeepers, artisans, tavern
hostesses and planters. Spruill details many of these
women; some are quite
fascinating, such as Eliza
Lucas. At age 17, she took
over the management of her
father's plantation. In addition
to tending to the business,
she spent much time engaged
in agricultural experiments. It
was she who introduced the
cultivation and processing of
indigo to South Carolina; it
became a major export of the
colonies.

Crimes colonial women
committed, and the punish-
ments which followed, are
another aspect of our social
history one can read about in
few other places besides
Women’s Life. Julia Cherry
Spruill also deals with the
manner in which the laws and
courts regarded women in that
era (not very favorably) by
quoting from numerous court
records and newspapers.

Women’s Life and Work in
the Southern Colonies is a
fascinating and thorough ac-
count of women of the
colonial period. It is factual,
objective history, but by no
means dull or dry. Quotations
from the original sources are
liberally scattered throughout
the book. Women’s Life has a
huge bibliography of primary
sources and a complete index.
Its publication in paperback
makes it a welcome volume to
anyone seriously interested in
the history of the American
woman.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

FDA Nears Decision
on Dalkon Shield Ban

Nancy Heine

No one has ever known
exactly how the intrauterine
(IUD) works to prevent preg-
nancy. But the serious side-
effects of one of
the devices--the Dalkon Shield--
are now a matter of public
record: it has been responsi-
ble for 209 septic spontane-
ous abortions and 11 reported
deaths.

On June 27 of this year, the
United States Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) called a
halt to the sale and distribu-
tion of the Dalkon Shield until
it could investigate the matter
further. Studies were con-
ducted and hearings held in
August for that purpose. The
facts are now in, according to
Mary Carol Kelly of the FDA
Press Office, and a statement
on FDA findings and conclu-
sions will come late in
September.

The story goes that over
2000 years ago, camel drivers
inserted stones in the uteri of
their female camels to prevent
conception and birth over long
journeys. Not until 1970,
though, did the IUD come into
wide use among women.
Alarmed by Senate hearings
on the dangers of oral
contraceptives but still desir-
ing birth control, large num-
bers of women in the United
States gave the device a try.

During this time the Dalkon
Shield gained popularity a-
mong women who had never
been pregnant. Touted as the
“IUD that’s changing current
thinking about contracep-
tion,” the Shield claimed to
have a lower rejection rate
than did other IUDs for these
women.

The first Dalkon Shield ad,
which appeared in medical
journals, based its claims on a
single study done by Hugh
Davis, Shield co-inventor and
medical consultant to A.H.
Robins Co., manufacturer of
the device. The ad claimed a
pregnancy rate of 1.1%, an
expulsion rate of 2.3% and a
one-year continuation rate--
that is, the number of women
who continue to wear the
Shield for one year--of 94%.

But the study was not
conducted on women who had
the device in place for one
year. It was conducted on 640
women for 3,549 “woman-
months of use.”

Dividing woman-months by
the number of women involved, the average insertion
time was only 5.5 months.

In a later ad, the A.H. Robins
Co. recommended that a
patient use another form of
contraception along with the
Shield for the first three
months of use. An irate
physician, testifying before
the House Hearings on
Medical Devices, noted that
this ad made claims based on
a guarantee covering little
more than two months of time
during which the Shield is the
only form of contraception
recommended.

While these ads were being
published, A.H. Robins had in
its files at least 10 independ-
ently conducted studies
showing the pregnancy rate as
high as 4.3% and continua-
tion rates as low as 41%.

David Links, Director of the
FDA Office of Medical Devic-
es, wrote at this time that
besides “mild puffery” the ads
for the device seemed “rea-
sonable and accurate.”

Meanwhile, reports of heavy
bleeding, painful insertion,
uterine perforation, higher
than expected pregnancy rates
and pregnancy complications
began coming in from women
using the Dalkon Shield as
well as other IUDs. A
physician’s survey by the US
Center for Disease Control
revealed that IUD use led to
more than 3,500 hospitaliza-
tions during the first six
months of 1973.

Then, in May 1974, A.H.
Robins sent out letters to
120,000 physicians advising
them that six deaths and 36
septic abortions appeared to
have been caused by the
Shield. By June, reports of
more deaths and abortions
forced the FDA into action.
Sale and distribution of the
Dalkon Shield were halted.

In July, the Department of
Health, Education and Wel-
fare (HEW) told its 3,000
federally funded family plan-
ning clinics to stop inserting
the Dalkon IUD. But it had
already been phasing them
out for the past two years
because information from
their abortion clinics indicat-
ed that the Shield had a higher
pregnancy rate than had been
advertised.

On August 21st, the FDA
opened a two-day public
hearing to gather facts and
professional opinions about
the Shield. Physicians testi-
fied that 1 out of every 25 IUD
pregnancies occur outside of
the uterus and must be
aborted. They added that 209
women had suffered septic (or
infected) spontaneous abor-
tions during Dalkon Shield
pregnancies and that eleven
had died of the resulting
blood poisoning.

Over the Labor Day holiday,
members of the FDA Special
Advisory Sub-Committee met
to assess information gath-
ered at the hearing. But the
final verdict will not be out
until the end of September.

Because the FDA regards
the IUD as a “device” rather
than a drug, it hasn't the
authority to require pre-mar-
ket testing of the contracep-
tive. Neither can it require the
reporting of adverse reactions
associated with the device,
the registration of IUD manu-
facturers nor the attachment
of warning labels to each IUD
package.

Once marketed, however,
the agency can assume a
regulatory function if it is
capable of proving in court
that the product is dangerous
to health when used as
directed or is improperly
labeled. But the FDA only
takes action when it’s sure it
can win in court.

In the past twenty years the
FDA has taken action against
only one IUD. After two slow
years of investigation, the
action was taken just five days
before the House Hearings on
Medical Devices threatened to
expose the Majzlin Spring as a
dangerous device.

In California, the Coalition
of Medical Rights for Women
is not waiting for the FDA
decision. They've filed a
petition with the California
Department of Health calling
for a ban on all further sales
and distribution of IUDs until
they can be further tested for
safety and the adoption of a
regulation that would require
manufacturers to take all
steps necessary to inform
women of the potential
dangers.

Patty Fulcher, chairperson
of the Coalition said, “Women
are tired of being used as
guinea pigs for untested
medical devices sold at
enormous profits by large
drug companies.”

Taproot:  
Feminism  
in Action  

TAPROOT is a service  
oriented non-profit organiza-  
tion “dedicated to advancing  
the opportunities for women  
and minorities in employ-  
ment, education and econo-  
mic development through  
both traditional and non-tra-  
ditional means.”  

TAPROOT was organized by  
seven Boulder feminists in the  
spring who chose the name  
TAPROOT because they see  
the root of “the woman’s  
problem” being women's eco-  
nomic powerlessness and  
women's traditional condi-  
tioning to accept this defini-  
tion of herself.  

The taproot of a tree is the  
source of its development so  
the nourishment of the tap-  
root provides is vital to the  
health of the tree.  

Membership in TAPROOT is  
open to anyone who shares a  
basic commitment to social  
equality. Members are eligible  
for participation in a food  
buying co-op and for group  
health and life insurance.  
Members can also register for  
classes at a reduced rate -  
classes designed to fill in  
some gaps in the traditional  
education offered to men and  
women. TAPROOT also offers  
assistance to businesses and  
organizations seeking profes-  
sional advice in developing  
creative employment practi-  
ces to meet the increasing  
obligations of affirmative ac-  
tion and equal employment  
guidelines.  

The Boulder based group is  
offering diverse courses this  
fall, beginning October 21.  
Among those available are:  
You and the Law, Common  
Car Care, the Single Father,  
the Single Solution (interper-  
sonal relationships), Home  
Canning, Preparing for Re-  
tirement.  

For registration information  
write to TAPROOT, box 3119,  
Boulder, Colorado, 80303 or  
call 494-6131. Some scholar-  
ship funds are available in  
keeping with the group’s  
effort to enhance the position  
of women and minorities in  
our society. In many cases,  
work scholarships or trades  
with instructors may also be  
arranged.  

Why boycott  
Gallo Wines?  

Because Gallo  
is trying to  
destroy the  

union its  
workers built.  

United Farm Workers  
of America (AFL-CIO)  
P.O. Box 62  
Keene, Ca. 93531  

Boulder Women  

Boulder Resource Center Opens  

The Boulder County Wo-  

men’s Resource Center  

opened in September after its  
establishment was highly  
recommended by the city's  
Task Force on Women and  
Children. The Center is  
currently seeking funding so  
that it will be able to  
adequately deal with the  
problems women face in  
education, employment, legal  
issues, health and child care.  
The space the Center occu-  
pies in downtown Boulder is  
donated and shared by Wo-  
manpower, a job resource and  
referral agency. The office is  
staffed by volunteers, gradu-  

ate students and a half-time  
release employee from the  
Mental Health Center.  

A previous Women’s Center  
in Boulder, housed in High-  
land school, was anti-struc-  
ture and therefore hard to  
maintain, according to staff at  
the newly organized center.  
Any woman can receive  
walk-in counseling (of the  
non-professional type), infor-  
mation, referrals. There are  
brown bag lunches every  
Thursday for working women  
and other women who want to  
come and talk or just get to  
know the center.  

Women who work with the  
resource center are very  

representative of all women in  
Boulder, says Barbara Caley,  
a staff person. “There are  
women from diverse econo-  
mic, social backgrounds. Sin-  
gle heads of households,  
older and younger women,  
working women and profes-  
sional women.” The resource  
center will also work with  
other women's groups in  
Boulder so that services won't  
be duplicated and so that  
issues such as child care  
facilities in the city can be  
focused on by all women.  
Finally, it seems, Boulder  
women’s groups are coming  
together.  

Women’s Liberation Coalition  
Begins Another Term  

The Women's Liberation  
Coalition at the University of  
Colorado has come to life  
again after summer vacation.  
Although some women are  
facing trial for their part in the  
demonstration and occupa-  
tion of a university building  
last spring over the issue of  
day care, the first meeting  
drew about seventy women  
who listened to the history of  
the coalition and got involved  
in making its history for this  
school year.  

The coalition has speakers  
who go into the Boulder  
community to talk about  
women’s liberation. It has a  
media and community con-  
tacts committee and intends  
to coordinate its activities  
with other women’s groups. A  
newsletter will be written to  
hopefully reach dormitories  
with new students who don’t  
understand or have miscon-  
ceptions of women’s libera-  
tion.  

As a result of the day care  
action last spring, the coali-  
tion maintains, the university  
has begun construction on a  
day care center for 60 children  
- hardly enough for the  
demonstrated need for child  
care. It won't be finished until  
March or April (it was  

supposed to open this month)  
and student housing fees are  
building it. Fees for married  
student housing and for  
Kiddie Kampus, the small day  
care center the University now  
has, have been raised to pay  
back the loan. There is also a  
conflict between the concept  
of a center for child care and  
private home child care. The  
University favors individually  
licensed child care homes.  
Future action around the  
issue is planned at the next  
Regent meeting sometime in  
October.  

Another area that affects  
women at the school is the  
struggle that workers in the  
student grill have had and  
continue to have with man-  
agement. According to one  
woman who was recently fired  
from the grill with no warning  
(contrary to State Personnel  
procedure that requires 3  
warnings, 2 of which must be  
written) the management is  
unorganized, has no com-  
munication with workers, is  
all male, although half of all  
workers are female. Last year  
university employees that  
didn’t belong to unions tried  
to organize but were satisfied  
with a small wage increase  
and more input into policy  
decisions.  

Another activity of the  
coalition is the Women's  
Crisis Project that would get a  
Women's Center established  
near the campus so that not  
only students but also com-  
munity women could use the  
facility. Self-defense, self-  
help, legal resources, career  
counseling and intramurals  
are some of the activities that  
the center would sponsor. A  
hotline for rape referrals and  
information would also be  
established. Money is cur-  
rently being requested from  
the student government. “We  
need to show that we are here.  
We're paying out money and  
now we want some back,”  
says one member.  

In the past the structure and  
organization of the coalition  
has been very loose. This year  
women in the coalition want  
to see a definite strong  
organization so that women  
will have someone there when  
they need help or communi-  
cation with other women who  
share their oppressed posi-  
tion.  

A three member steering  
committee helps coordinate  
the activities of the coalition.  
The office is in the student  
union across from the grill in  
room 181.  

Page 7  

Women’s  
Studies  

The Women's Studies Pro-  
gram at the University of  
Colorado is beginning acade-  
mic consciousness raising in  
the school’s departments and  
courses. The program coordi-  
nates and helps sponsor  
courses in the College of Arts  
and Sciences that deal with  
the neglected subject of  
women either as makers of  
history or as potential crea-  
tors of their own lives. Women  
in Literature, the sex roles of  
women in sociology, women's  
history, Experiential Studies  
courses in women’s oppres-  
sion and liberation and  
women in cross-cultural per-  
spectives from the Anthropology  
Department are some of  
the courses a woman can take  
at the university this fall.  

“At this point, we don't  
offer our own courses,” says  
Carol Pearson, director of the  
Women’s Studies Program.  
“We didn't ask for recognition  
as a department of our own for  
many reasons. Historically,  
departments that were for  
women even though they were  
heavy in academics turned  
into home ec. centers and the  
university wouldn't support  
them. There is no reason to  
think that would happen here  
but such a department may  
tend to congregate all women  
faculty in one department and  
create a ghettoization of  
women.  

“It would also take good  
women out of regular depart-  
ments and make it less likely  
that the general student body  
would take the courses, but  
rather only those students  
who were already interested in  
women’s studies.”  

Pearson also sees the  
necessity for “turning on  
students” and concerning  
other faculty members to  
change a course or teach it  
from another perspective that  
would include the historical  
neglect that academia has  
given women. This is another  
reason why it’s important not  
to isolate women’s studies in  
its own department.  

The Women’s Studies Pro-  
gram can be issues oriented  
or research oriented, its  
direction hasn’t yet crystal-  
lized. Office hours are from 9  
to 5 at Hillside Court #7, 17th  
and University in Boulder.

Page 8

Big Mama Rag vol. 3 No. 4

Political Womanpower

Some Colorado Candidates

Answers from the candidates listed here have been compiled from a questionnaire distributed by NOW Political Task Force. Time did not permit interviews of those candidates who did not turn in the questionnaire.

Roseanne Ball, R-Senate District 5 - Ball believes that the State “does have a comprehensive program for those who need help. The WIN program appears to be good;” believes that child care should be available for all parents but “not at state expense for all, we should look closely and be willing to discuss certain conditions such as the low salaried worker...”; supports the abortion decision; cannot answer the question on the women’s prison since “it is not under study and would surely need more solid facts before making a decision; the pregnancy compensation question needs “study”; supports all the rape reform legislation except the one that would redefine the term “spouse” so that its definition does not deprive the victim of protection under Colorado State Law.

Anne Thompson, R-Senate District 34 - “I firmly believe that abortion should be a matter of individual decision. I favor child care facilities, support state funding of family planning, and I am concerned about rape prosecution reform. Generally speaking, based on my previous experience in the General Assembly, I would say that each piece of proposed legislation must be viewed and studied as it is presented.”

Cathy Reynolds, D-House District 15 - Reynolds feels that the state can support totally small pilot programs of child care “but for any comprehensive urban the federal government will have to share at least equally in the expense; she feels that working parents should receive the benefits first “then others as space permits”; supports the abortion decision; supports state funding of family planning; supports closing the Women’s prison and transferring its functions to the Denver area; feels that pregnancy should be included under the scope of unemployment compensation “only if pregnancy was the reason the employer terminated the work. Then it becomes discrimination”; supports all the rape prosecution reform proposals.

Laura Miller, R-House District 28 - “I support the establishment and encouragement of development of additional child care centers, with the state assisting those unable to pay full support, or any support. I support the decisions of the Supreme Court (regarding abortion, specifically -ed.) as the Law of the Land.” Miller supports the idea of state funding of family planning; has not studied the problem of the women’s prison closure; does not support including pregnancy and pregnancy related problems under the scope of unemployment compensation; supports the rape reform prosecution proposals except for the redefinition of the term “spouse” which the candidate has “not studied.”

Photo by Carol Lease

Nora Danielson, SWP [Socialist Workers Party], Governor - supports state funding for comprehensive child care “not only for state employees but for everyone. Parents should decide the policies, choose the teachers and the personnel. Child care should be a service provided by society not by only the parents.” The SWP candidate believes that abortion is a woman’s right and that the government shouldn't tell any woman whether or not to have a child. Danielson supports state funding of family planning but feels that the reasons the country (and the world) has so many problems is not because of overpopulation but because the USA doesn’t cooperate in a world socialist system with planned economy that would provide for all the needs of people, would assure good clean cities and wouldn't suffer from an “excess” of people. “It is a fallacy that problems can be solved by the number of people living in the world.

The real criminals aren't in prisons, says Danielson. It is complete hypocrisy that Nixon murdered in Vietnam, opposed abortion, amassed a complete assault on the civil liberties of everybody and that people who passed bad checks should be put in prison. The reason they did it in the first place is just to get by. Society thrives on poor people and they will fight to get back. In a socialist society there would be no prisons, people wouldn't need to steal a loaf of bread to survive. Rape is encouraged in our society by the way women are looked on as sex objects. And rape laws have traditionally been used by society to get to black and Chicano men. The problem won't be solved by easier convictions because that would just put more black and Chicano men into prison.

“Women should start fighting back in this society because women’s liberation threatens capitalist society and this society will do anything and everything it can to keep the movement a joke. Society should be run in the interests of the majority of the people not a few, the ones who control the wealth and own things for a living.

“Ideas of women’s liberation are just now becoming acceptable to women workers - women who are forming the CLUW here in Denver. Women are organizing and fighting for what they want.”

Joan J. Harrison, D-House District 50 - would support partial state funding for comprehensive child care facilities “hoping federal funds would be added in the near future. H.B. 1258, 1973 session, called for about $800,000. I presume this is low, but funding of the new functions needs to take into account some start-up time and probably better data on needs; all parents should be eligible for child care, Harrison believes; the candidate supports the abortion decision of the Supreme Court; supports state funding of family planning; feels uninformed on the issue of closing the Women's Prison, “my gut reaction would be to close Canon City in the interests of decentralization, allowance for families; does not support including pregnancy and related problems under the scope of unemployment compensation; favors the rape reform proposals.

Betty Ann Dittemore, R-House District 37 - supports state funding for comprehensive child care facilities “for those mothers in ADC;” supports the abortion decision of the Supreme Court of January, 1973; supports state funding of family planning “to a limited extent;” believes that the Women's Penitentiary in Canon City is underutilized and is in favor of closing it “if facilities are available;” Dittemore would “have to see statistics on resultant costs” before she could decide on including pregnancy and related problems under unemployment compensation; supports rape reform proposals, but would have to see the proposed redefinition of the term spouse.

Marcelline T. Verhoff - wrote no opinion to the first question; feels that just working parents should receive such child care; says that abortion “is a personal thing” for a woman to decide herself; supports state funding of family planning; agrees to closing down the women’s prison if it could be handled better, but “where will they be kept?”; would have to think more about the “interesting problem” of including pregnancy problems under unemployment compensation; believes that the state should pay costs of emergency care, related follow-up psychological care for victims of violent crimes, but not the burial costs.

Jean Marks, D-House District 33 - Marks strongly supports state funding for comprehensive child care facilities that should be available to all parents; she supports the Supreme Court decision regarding abortion; gives a “qualified yes” to the support of state funding of family planning; feels the Women's Penitentiary in Canon City should be closed, “I believe there are more educational, counseling, etc. facilities available here and the chances are greater that they would be closer to their families here;” supports including pregnancy related problems and allowing a limited time for pregnancy under unemployment compensation; supports the rape reform proposals but feels “the defendant’s rights must also be protected.”

Pat Schroeder, D-US Congress - U.S. Representative Pat Schroeder (D-Colo.) told a very warm and accepting audience at the August 29th general meeting that the real problem for women today is the economy, because “women are the first shut out, and women are going to have hard times ahead because the economy is going to have hard times ahead.” She said that we, as women, must become, “much more economically oriented,” which is going to become tougher as the economic scene unfolds.

Representative Schroeder cited current Department of Labor statistics showing a 35% higher rate of unemployment among women than men. Women earn 40% less than men yet, she said, women don’t receive a 40% discount on the goods and services they buy. What we must fight, she said, is the old myth that women work not because they need to, but to pass the time away.

The women we must work hardest for—and NOW tends also to forget them, she said—are the young women who bought the American dream of the housewife’s role with husband and family and are now divorced or separated heads of households without job skills or the economic access to the good life. Representative Schroeder reminded her audience that our country has created this woman. We have convinced young girls that they don’t need economic skills, because, “if you're married, you don’t need a skill.” Our male-oriented society has taught our young women that “your main job is to troll and catch me.”

“We've got to figure out some way not to put people down,” she said, “but to allow them to participate. Why put down women who are 53% of our brainpower?”

Responding to questions on inflation, Representative Schroeder proposed a reduction of high interest rates which she feels would “bring the market back”: controls on food (“even though I have been a free trader”); better anti-trust laws; and an increase in the personal tax exemption (it’s only $150 more today than during World War II); and a drastic reduction in the defense budget (70% of the

More on Page 9

Political Womanpower: Some Colorado Candidates ...

From Page 8

control table budget is de-
fense, of which only 5% is for
strategic weapons).

Other political concerns
which do not receive adequate
attention in the “men’s club”
of the United States Congress
include children and the aged.
“Children are our most impor-
tant natural resource,” Repre-
sentative Schroeder stated,
but they appear in the budget

only when legislation is
enacted to control juvenile
delinquency.

Concerning the possibility
of governmental subsidizing
of day care centers, Repre-
sentative Schroeder suggests
giving tax incentives to
corporations to set up day
care centers for their employ-
ees’ children. She said, “we
might be able to get this
through because it won’t take
any funds.”

According to a study
conducted by Ralph Nader,
white women over 65 are the
poorest segment of the
population. In a question and
answer period which extended
after the general meeting
adjourned, Ms. Schroeder
stated that the Ford Founda-
tion has allocated funds for
grocery stores on wheels
which will allow the aged to
purchase groceries at home.

We're on the verge of trying
to get different kinds of
people in Congress, she said.
As an example, Wilbur Mills
has a 30-year-old woman
running against him. But we
have a long way to go getting
women into responsible gov-
ernment positions. Out of six
Nixon nominees to the Su-
preme Court there were no
women; there is no woman in
the Cabinet; no woman in the
Senate and only sixteen
women in The House of
Representatives. Representa-
tive Schroeder said she often
tells her colleagues that “a
stag Senate is a stag nation.”

Press releases from the
Nixon Administration praise
the number of women hired
for government service. Re-
presentative Schroeder added,
“this is a phenomenal record—
more than we’ve ever had
before,” but she explained
sarcastically the increase
means that of 12,000 govern-
mental positions, 118 are
filled by women (less than
1%). Of those having a GS 13
rating, only 4% are women;
yet, the GS 1 through GS 6
ratings are 70% women. "This
is no great sterling example.”

Pat Schroeder stated that
the nation is watching Denver,
because Denver has demon-
strated the effectiveness of
the grassroots movement, in
challenging the Olympics, re-
moving nerve gas, and, in
electing a woman whose
campaign was based on the
value of the individual. “We
can’t let people get crushed,”
Ms. Schroeder affirmed.

Representative Schroeder
emphatically pointed out that,
“there is no bill that doesn't
affect women. Legislation
affecting the tax code, Social
Security and military benefits
all apply to women. “We are
53% of the population. I am
tired of women apologizing
for being women,” she said.

Pat Schroeder was at home
among friends that evening.

Reprinted from the NOW
newsletter

--Kathleen Cramm
and
--Terry Miller

Peggy Sanbourne, R-House
District 35 - sees a “need” for
child care but does not think
that it should be completely
free but cost should be on a
graduated scale; thinks that
closing down the Women’s
Prison needs more study and
that there would have to be “a
suitable alternative” maybe a
half-way house in Denver;
feels that there is a “vast field
of education that needs to be
done on rape” and that the
proposals need to be looked
into; “I’ve always been known
to be a very fair individual,”
says Sanbourne. “I believe
there are important values for
America and Colorado that are
best expressed in a Republi-
can political philosophy: that
without emphasis on financial
responsibility, personal own-
ership of the means of
production, traditional values
in education, and homage to
God within the family circle
there can ultimately be no
family, no knowledge, no
production and no nation.”

photo by Pavita Miller

Arie Taylor, D-House District
7 - Definitely supports state
funding for comprehensive
child care facilities; believes
that cost should be based on
ability to pay for all parents;
supports the right for every
woman to decide whether to
have a child or not; thinks
that the Women’s Penitentiary

- should be closed and women

returned to metro Denver
where they can be near their
families; supports including
pregnancy and pregnancy-re-
lated problems under the
scope of unemployment com-
pensation; supports “most”
of the rape reform proposals,
“but some need strengthening.” Taylor is a people-oriented
representative and is a
strong supporter of a con-
sumer rights bill that will keep
the “consumer from getting
ripped off.”

Sarah Masterson, R-House
District 28 - Masterson does
not want the state to fund
child care but thinks that
businesses should be encour-
aged to do it on their own;
parents should pay for the
cost of child care because
“when responsibility is taken
away from people to pay it’s
bad. The state should work
through free enterprise. The
candidate does not want to
get embroiled in the abortion
controversy, but concedes
that “there are many cases
where abortion is the only
answer. I’m not going to sit in
judgment - I'm not eager to
fight the Supreme Court.
Masterson supports state
funding of family planning;
and believes that the penalty
for rape should be the “same
penalty as for premeditated
murder,” and that the rape
reform proposals will proba-
bly help to clean up the
ambiguous prosecution sur-
rounding rape.

Barbara Holme, D-State Sen-
ate District 5 - supports fully
state funding for comprehen-
sive child care facilities with a

sliding scale, with fees
increasing as the family
income rises. “To improve

child care in my district I
would like to encourage
businesses, churches, tem-
ples, and schools to operate
or at least provide space for
child care facilities. I whole-
heartedly support the Equal
Rights Amendment and the
Supreme Court's decision in
Roe v. Wade (which allowed
women the freedom to decide
whether or not to bear
children). Feminist task for-
ces should make every at-
tempt to achieve quick ratifi-
cation of ERA. Any attempt to
amend the Constitution to
limit a woman's right to
decide whether to bear child-
ren should be opposed.
Should such an amendment
be passed by Congress, it is
important to have strong
legislators in every state
refuse it ratification. I would,
of course, oppose ratification
of such an amendment.
Holme supports state funding
of family planning since
“voluntary family planning
prevents unwanted pregnan-
cies, prevents the need for
abortion and is the most
effective government program
per dollar spent; favors
improving our jails and
prisons and hesitates “to add
any more facilities to the
Denver metro area while
growth here remains so
uncontrolled; believes the
“unemployment compensa-
tion is primarily for those who
become involuntarily unem-
ployed. With birth control,
most pregnancy is voluntary
and the associated costs,
except for the poor, should be
borne by the families;”
supports all the rape prosecu-
tion reform proposals.

Pat Burrows, D-House District
52 - “I support state funding of
child care facilities. I support
state support of a study
looking into the feasibility of
on-site facilities, jointly sup-
ported by industry and go-
vernment. I believe alternative

Page 9

Mary Buchanan - supports
state funding for comprehen-
sive child care facilities that
should be available to all
parents; supports the 1973
Supreme Court decision re-
garding abortion (which al-
lows women the freedom to

decide whether or not to bear
a child); is in favor of closing
down the Women's Peniten-
tiary in Canon City and
transferring its functions to
the Denver area “if most
inmates are from Denver and if
care and programs are also
changed;" supports extend-
ing disability insurance to
related pregnancy and preg-
nancy-related problems; sup-
ports rape prosecution reform
proposals,

types of child care should be
examined, through re-evalua-
tion of licensing require-
ments. Child care should be
available on a voluntary basis
for all. I must be available for
working parents;” Burrows
supports the Supreme Court
abortion decision; supports
state funding of family plan-
ning; is “in favor of a
dispersion of correctional
facilities throughout the
state;” supports including
pregnancy under unemploy-
ment compensation; sup-
ports all of the rape reform
proposals.

NEWS
FROM AROUND

a column

Chocolate Waters

Coven Gets Revenge; Ames, Iowa-- When Iowa State University
lent its facilities to the Miss Iowa Beauty Pageant two years ago,
the Women’s Coalition sought the help of a local witch coven -
DARC, the Des Moines Ames Radical Coven. It hexed the
pageant and its supporters, and the television station, KDIN. Within
an hour KDIN suffered a power failure. Part of the hex involved
laying a curse on ground earmarked for a football stadium. A
substantial portion of the construction was complete when lo! it
began to tilt and sink slowly into the ground. Barbara X of DARC
expressed surprise that it had taken so long. She said the coven is
willing to remove the hex in return for a 7.4 million dollar child
care center to be built in its place. (Off Our Backs, Aug-Sep. 74)

Widening Gap Reported in Earnings-- According to the latest
consumer income survey of the US Bureau of the Census, the
income of a typical full-time woman worker employed year-round
in '73 was $6,490- or 57% of her male counterpart in the work
force. The gap between the sexes has thus widened and was three
percentage points bigger in '73 than it was in '71. (The
Spokeswoman, Aug. 15, 74)

INDYKEMENT of Ms. Magazine-- “On behalf of six million Lesbian
women and hundreds of thousands of women-identified
Feminists in the USA...the Lesbian Tide magazine charges Ms.
magazine with: Gross neglect and psychic genocide against
Lesbian women, sexist and heterosexist representation of
women, and perpetuating anti-feminist attitudes and politics...”
The Tide went on to point out that in two years of publishing, Ms.
“has published 5 out of 505 major articles (.99%) by Lesbians
about Lesbians’ lives and needs; has printed 9 out of 537 letters
(1.7%) by, about, or relating to Lesbian women; has employed
one active, public Lesbian on its editorial staff; has printed
innumerable ads which consistently portray women in exclusive
relationship to men, in fashion model imagery and in
professional, classist roles." Also noting that Ms. is owned by a
male corporation, the Tide went on to resolve “that until Ms.
re-evaluates and begins to adequately represent the politics and
lifestyles of Lesbian radical Feminists, we the Lesbian Nation
cancel our subscription and support of a magazine whose pages
have cancelled our reality.” (The Lesbian Tide, Aug, 74)

How to Avoid Rape!-- “Don't go out without clothes, that
encourages men. Don’t go out with clothes, any clothes
encourage some men...Avoid childhood, some rapists are turned
on by the very young. Avoid old age, some rapists inflict
themselves on older women...Don't have a father, grandfather,
uncle, or brother, these are the relatives who most often rape
young women. Don't marry, rape is legal within marriage. To be
quite sure, don't exist!” (Saskatoon WL Newsletter, July, 74)

Shameless Gossip-- It has recently been reported that an avid fan
of BMR distributed papers in all the gas station women’s
restrooms from Denver to points East. (Talk about grass-roots
organizing!) Someone else said that the restrooms were a
good place for the papers.

photo by Lyn Alwels

The general membership of  
the Women's Center Coalition  
has been presented with a  
statement of purpose and a  
proposed governing structure  
by its temporary coordinating  
committee. According to the  
statement of purpose the  
Women’s Center Coalition has  
as its purpose “to nurture and  
centralize the women's com-  
munity, especially that of the  
Denver area; to seek out and  
serve the cultural, education-  
al, social, business, health  
and communication needs of  
women; to create and sustain  
a facility known as the Denver  
Women’s Center where these  
functions will be centralized.”

The proposed governing  
body of the Women’s Center  
is the center council which  
would be composed of a  
representative from each  
member organization and wo-  
men who do not associate  
themselves with any specific  
group or organization. The  
center council is seen as  
being the most potentially  
responsive process to receive  
input from all Coalition  
members and to generate  
active involvement; to foster  
the diversified interests, acti-  
vities, and philosophies of  
Coalition members; to avoid  
the use and/or abuse of power  
by any individual or group  
within the Coalition; and to  
prevent the polarization (cul-  
turally, socially or politically)  
of organizations and individu-  
als within the Denver Wo-  
men’s Center Coalition.”

The Women's Festival  
raised $400.00 after expenses  
for the Women’s Center. For a  
period of “six months this  
money will be held in a high  
interest savings account so  
that the Coalition has the time  
to get by-laws firmly written,  
to have itself well organized  
and soundly structured, and  
to raise additional money for  
the Women’s Center.

Any woman who wants to  
can become a participant in  
the policy making decisions  
of the Women's Center Coal-  
ition. In order for the Women’s  
Center to become a reality,  
the work of the Coalition must  
be the shared experience of all  
women.”

Photo by Lyn Al

Women’s Festival

Nash

Photo by Babs

Photo by Lyn Alwels

Page 12

POST

Big Mama Rag had originally announced a poetry contest. A statement prepared by Adrienne Rich, Audre Lorde, and Alice Walker, all nominated for the National Book Award for Poetry, has encouraged us to join in a new feminist tradition not following the usual competitive standards of a contest. Part of their statement reads: “We can enrich ourselves more in supporting and giving to each other than by competing against each other; and that poetry—if it is poetry—exists in a realm beyond comparison.”

In this spirit, we have decided to acknowledge all of the entries and to share the prize money among the women in this community rather than selecting one winner for the announced prize money of $10.00, and so the amount will be offered to the development of a Women’s Center.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

Sovereign of the Streets

Tonight

Picnics

Leaf eyes and leaf mouth

Pressed - no crushed -

so that green leaf juice

Smeared upon our fingers and stains our bodies.  
It won't wash out, mother always said,

And she was right.

It never did. Not a bit of it.

Soak it all you want. Scrub it.

Mother was right.

It's really rather embarrassing to be seen like this.  
Change my clothes.

All clean.

Oops. What about the fingers.

(Everybody will know where you’ve been)

That won't come out either.

Maybe it will wear away in time....

“Steps”  
a - Michele Barale  
My heart beats slow and  
painfully. I wish to hurt  
no one. I want to laugh  
and give myself. I want  
to dance and touch  
someone.

I have decided to wear purple

And gold on my neck and arms and fingers and toes  
I'll be violet-eyed

And I'll be the Queen.

Sovereign of the Streets

I'll be the Harlot,

Dietrich and Cleo and Catherine the Great

I'll sparkle my way downtown

And then glitter home again

Yesterday

I was the lioness

I was all gold and brown and shattering

Purring and snarling and feline

And so Wicked

I was Medusa,

Destruction in a glance

The Trojan Horse, and riant at the ruin in my wake,  
I prowled gilded jungles downtown

And then I green-eyed my way home again

Tomorrow

I'll be a witch

In black, I'm a ghost

A dark-eyed Harpy, clawed and winged

Mysterious and so Evil

I'll be the Phantom, an Illusion

Look! I'm the Bogeywoman!

I'll go downtown, ethereal it all the way,

And then I'll make my Supernatural way home again

I want to sleep so soundly  
soft and wake in the dawn  
with you beside me. And see  
you wake and smile right back.

I step so soft I tremble now,  

don’t know where to walk to. I must  
depend on no one else. I feel so  
lost

and hard

and cold.

I need someone that must be me  
to step

and walk

and live. For now.

- Karen Greathouse

Menstrual poems,

Blood red.

I cannot stop them.

They slide and splatter

Out of my body

And spot the cold tile of the floors.

I do not want to write them.

They are not what I thought poetry was made of.  
But I cannot - will not - staunch their flow.  
Irregular and cramped,

My handwriting runs across the paper

And I read its spoor.

They smell of myself, these poems,

And trace the delicate, intricate, arterial pattern

of my mother and daughter

And a man who once, staring at my blood-smudged thighs,  
asked in a child’s wonder and fear so like my own,  
Does it hurt, does it hurt? :

- Michele Barale

The Lady and the Cat

I sit all alone  
Beside my bucket and stove  
and sing as I rock along  
The words come out clear  
as my voice disappears  
and my cat just jumped  
on my lap.  
I sit all alone  
out on my dusty old porch  
and sing as I rock along  
The sky becomes black  
as the rain comes with a splash

and my cat just jumped on my lap.

I lay all alone  
in my dusty old grave  
as I heard a tap on my door  
I open my eyes  
and find a surprise  
and the cat just jumped  
on my lap  
- Cindy Robinson

- Nancy Bell

Closets

I bring the pen out from under my wings  
where it blooms into a quill

Blowing out the light to hide me

I move toward the other side of the room  
My ears pick out a cat, its size

alters with the twitching of my lobes

The room is all doors

For a moment I pretend to hide behind one  
but I am afraid no one will find me—

then I am afraid I will never come out

You pull me into the air

we walk along a rill smelling of snakes

that will not come out of doors till we have gone  
and then, in the sensation of our bellies  
touching across a shady membrane

the need for all the doors resonates within me  
Stone metaphors lead me through a crusted lane  
Something just ahead of me knows the path  
steers me through crystal trees and an opening  
lined with rose hips and brittle bones

Only now do I understand the parabolas  
Only now do the quickly healing lesions  
show that the fear within me

was hunched over my own notions

In the open spaces between our legs

I stop following myself

I toss my head at the signature of others  
I reach for myself

a bright fruit grown late.

- Sandia

Noon Moon Struggles

On this welcome night candlelit under stars  
sharing spontaneous ceremonial dinner,  

we eldest-of-siblings witches  

transform through tunes of our own stories.  

By night new moon women communicating, carrying on knowledge;  

the media bodies and eyes,  

our eyes those of our foremothers in the forest  
by night secret seclusion;  

the swift spirit’s ether solution of  

stories under stars.  

Clouds shield us slightly, intermittently from the universe  

that listens to our natures...  

Noon moon struggles  
process/progress of yearning/learning  
wander-dreams and wonder-realities interwoven  
containment catapulting  

overture of oppression  

repairing or repression  

song of single-minded escape  
unfinished -understanding  

renewed reaching  

precocious peace  

somewhere sisters here where hear me.  

Sinking night moonless dreamless dark sleep but smiling  

in the warm waters womb waters  
we are all  

warm mothers warm lesbians  

we are all  

gathering our own harvest.  

- Sienna Leaves  

Schizophrenia or the Vacuum Cleaner  

you pay your money in hopes of happiness and  

while you lie on the expensive couch you  

learn that the forests and pure bright sunshine aren't  
where it’s at  

washing dishes is health  
freedom is illness  

you're supposed to be a well-adjusted slave.......  
my answer to that is to take  

my bow and arrow ‘to the hills,  

to hunt a deer, to hear the mountain breathe.  
Crouching in the stillness, I will pray--  

“Artemis, Goddess of silver light,  

don’t make us choose between madness or slavery --  
help set your daughters free!”  

you thank the doctor you get up to leave  

to go home and make the supper  

you do not even see the sunset..........  

- Mary Ellen Braun  

It's Up To You  

=  

are the one who decides if  
you are happy,  

are the one who decides if  
you are sad.  

are the one who decides if  
you are silly, :  

are the one who decides if  
you are mad.  

are the one who decides  
to do things quickly,  
are the one who decides  
to do things slow  
are the one who decides if  
you are a success in life,  
can be!  
I know.  

You  

=  

You  

=  

You  

=  

You  
You  
You  
You  

You  

Page 123  

Propagandized  

So here I am in my developed body,  
Resplendent in bosom and curve;  
Cultured by years of attention,  
Groomed by my constant fervor.  

You bribed me with leering approval:  
You blackmailed me with wandering stares.  

You convinced me with advertising;  
You conditioned me with discriminating airs.  

So here I am in this prison,  
Surrounded by my sex;  

Aware now that this love-flesh  
Has come to be my hex.  

You humiliated me with departure;  
You ridiculed me with laughter.  

Until you molded me with examples,  
Promising reward by coming after.  

So here I am in this form  

Which has fulfilled all expectations.  
And I am finally ready to receive  
Your praise and incantations.  

Now you shame me  

With Disapproval and Shock  

That I would flaunt my female  
As you would cuckold your cock!  

Shecat - Eileen Charles Hyatt  

The girl is slender and beautiful  

She sits next to me smiling  

the parts are in the right order  

order is not in the right parts  

loneliness rises to make a big nothing  
loneliness sits on our shoulders and cries  
we embrace in a slender kiss  

and our hearts rise, our hands rise,  

breast to breast, mouth to mouth  

the fragrance of our closeness  

could fill a thousand nights  

we wind our legs tightly together  

aroused and passionate  

we leave one another wrapped in desire  

to keep loneliness from our eyes in the dark  
to keep loneliness from sucking our bones  
to keep loneliness from killing our minds  
we do this out of loneliness  

but mostly because she sits there  

slender and beautiful, mostly  

because she sits there smiling at me,  
mostly because we are trying to make  
order out of beauty, mostly because we are trying  
to build a safe place in a hostile world,  
a safe place for eyes, for breasts, for mouths  

a safe place for touching  

- Shecat  

“Awakening”  

Woman-child conceived in agony and joy. :  
She screams her frustrations as she emerges from the loins  
of a mother who begets the heritage of Man against Man,  
But, word is seldom if ever forthcoming regarding  
“WOMANKIND!”  
Woman-child stumbling along a road.  
She finds that it is often marked  
ONE WAY ONLY.  
Woman-child growing, but there is no one to show her the way.  
The parents condition her the way things are  
and not the way they are supposed to be.  
Woman-child crying as she discovers certain parts of the world ;  
remain closed. Doors that would never be opened because she is  
“FEMALE!”  
Woman-child making knowledge her tool not her crutch.  
Trying not to lash out at a world that is not ready  
for her youth and her idealism. :  
Her age instead of opening up new horizons  
is thrown up as a barrier. : ms  
It serves to reinforce the “Generation Gap!  
Mocking her grey hair and her wrinkles, praising  
the long hair and the model look instead of Experience.  
Woman-child born at last, but the labor process is  
far from over.  
Unfortunately, it’s only the  
“BEGINNING”!  

- Liska A. Crawford  

- Virginia Bonham Woodard

Page 14

Women &
_ Histor

Emma Goldman

Emma Goldman was a famed anarchist and feminist whose
revolutionary ideas and outspokeness made her a legend in her
own time. She was born in czarist Russia on June 27, 1869. When
she was seventeen, she left Russia and joined her sister in
Rochester, New York, fleeing a tyrannical father and an arranged
marriage. She went to work in a garment factory, as she had in
Russia, and soon married another immigrant. But after being
radicalized by the hanging of the Haymarket martyrs, she divorced
her husband and left for New York City, where she almost
immediately began her career as a lecturer and organizer, at first
working closely with Alexander Berkman and Johann Most, the
well-known anarchists. But very quickly, Emma was known, in her
own right, as a passionate speaker and dynamic organizer. She
spoke to the issues of draft resistance, feminism, the need for
birth control, “free love,” and anarchism. She was often arrested
as a matter of course when she was to speak somewhere — and
she claimed she always carried a book with her so if she was
arrested she would have something to read in jail.

The Homestead massacre led her to co-conspire with
Berkman in plotting the assassination of industrialist Henry C.
Frick. Berkman spent fourteen years in prison for the shooting,
though Frick was only wounded and recovered quickly. Emma was
never tried for that plot but later was imprisoned for complicity in
the plot to kill President McKinley, though she was innocent of
that charge.

Emma Goldman was a nurse and midwife, and so witnessing
the tragedy of poor women having more babies than they wanted
or could care for, she spoke and wrote about the necessity of birth
control methods and safe abortions. She expressed her own regret
at not being able to perform abortions herself, but she knew of no
safe method to use. Perhaps what Emma is most well known for is
her analogy between marriage and prostitution, and she
contemptuously criticized the hypocrisy of those who harassed
and imprisoned prostitutes. Though she was disappointed in the
women's emancipation movement at the time, she expressed her
views of the importance of liberation in her essay “The Tragedy of
Woman Emancipation.” She wrote: “Emancipation should make it
possible for woman to be human in the truest sense. Everything
within her that craves assertion and activity should reach its
fullest expression; all artificial barriers should be broken, and the
road towards greater freedom cleared of every trace of centuries of
submission and slavery.”

“Red Emma,” as she was known, did speak and write in
support of Women’s Liberation, but her movement work was
primarily with male colleagues, and she believed very much in an
integrated revolutionary movement. Her autobiography, which is
intriguing reading, communicates her insight, spirit, and most
impressively, her incredible self-confidence.

Emma was deported back to Russia in 1919, and her
deportation hearing was presided over by J. Edgar Hoover
himself. As the boat pulled out, she thumbed her nose at a
congressman who had come to watch the exit of the deported
anarchists. Once in Russia, which had experienced a revolution,
she criticized the repression she saw there. She left Russia,
traveled around, and finally settled in France where she died. Her
body was shipped to the US and she was buried in the same
cemetery with the Haymarket martyrs.

(reprinted from Uppity Women! A Legacy of Liberation.)

Women listen intently as Chocolate Waters reads her new poem, “To the
Man Reporter from the Denver Post.”

Photos by Sandia

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

Lesbian Writers
Come Out of

Their Closets

Chocolate Waters and Sandia

Lesbian writers have often
had to come out of a very
different type of closet. Many
of them, plagued with the
self-doubt that has followed
women throughout history,
have hid their poems, stories,
chapters of potential books
and essays in bureau drawers.
Others, knowing their chances
of being published were
poor because they were
women or because they feared
repercussions if their real
names were known, hid under
masculine pseudonyms. Mari
Kuda, an organizer of the
Lesbian Writers’ Conference
held in Chicago September
13-15, stated that one of the
main purposes of the confer-
ence was to encourage and
support these very women.

The conference began Fri-
day night with a talk by Valerie
Taylor, an author in her 60s
who has published seven
novels about women. Her
speech was punctuated with
humorous and informative
disclosures about Lesbians in
the world of letters. Ms.
Taylor, herself a Lesbian
grandmother, noted the proud
inheritance from our cultural
grandmothers and empha-
sized how we could learn from
their experiences.

She traced Lesbian writers
from the beginning of the
twentieth century, focusing
particularly on the 50s. It was
during the early part of this
period that the market was
flooded with badly written,
sensationalistic Lesbian nov-
els (most written by men)
which depicted “a beautiful
butch in black lace underwear
who never gets out of bed
long enough to send the
sheets to the laundry. In the
end, she renounces women,
finding true love with a male
instead.”

Long Impressive List

At the same time, Lesbian
writers were trying to incor-
porate the theme of women
loving women in a more
dignified and realistic way.
The list is long and impressive
although not well known to
most readers: Gayle Wilhelm,
May Sarton, Violette Le Duc,
Jeanette Foster, Djuna
Barnes, and Colette - to
mention a very few. It is
impossible to explain their
contributions in depth here.
For this reason, one of the
most important outgrowths of
the conference was the
bibliography Woman Loving
Woman, compiled by the
Chicago organizers. (Ed.
note: now available at the
BMR office).

The 60s, according to
Valerie Taylor, was a turning
point in the history of Lesbian
Literature because of the
Women’s Movement and the
Gay Liberation Movement.

Women were now beginning
to realize that Lesbianism was
not only a viable lifestyle, it
was also politically important
in the context of a male-dom-
inated world. Out of this
realization grew such books
as Lesbian Nation, Sappho
was a Right-On Woman, and
Lesbian Woman.

Her speech ended with a
challenge for writers of the
70s to continue with this
proud inheritance and to
develop not only Lesbian
themes, but to “write about
the whole world.”

Writing Explored

On Saturday, several work-
shops explored different as-
pects of writing including
criticism, poetry, articles,
fiction, and getting published.
One unique idea viewed
writing as a collective expres-
sion and the fiction workshop
experimented with this idea
and composed a collective
story. The need for a feminist
aesthetic or a way in which
women can express feminine
values in their writing was a
theme which ran throughout
many of the workshops.

The conference, which end-
ed with women reading their
original works and singing
their own songs, was for the
most part quite successful.
The agenda was well organ-
ized and carefully planned
although structure did at
times prevent a free flow of
discussion. There also
seemed to be some underly-
ing political differences con-
cerning the relationship of art
to Lesbian Feminism, and
these unexpressed feelings
subtly inhibited the confer-
ence in some respects. The
organizers tactfully prevented
any disruptions from occur-
ring, but for the sake of the
Chicago women, we do hope
these differences will even-
tually be worked out.

Nevertheless, the Lesbian
Writers’ Conference demon-
strated that women all over
the country are indeed writ-
ing, and writing in a way
which is positively reflective
of the Lesbian in life and
literature today. Write-On!

Lesbian writers talk about being published: “Often you just have to know
somebody,” said Cindy Carr, an article writer for the Chicago Sun-Times.
Panelists from left to right are Andra Medea (co-author of Against Rape),
Valerie Taylor, author of seven Lesbian novels, Cindy Carr, and Claudia
Scott, author of Portraits.

Working Woman’s Account...

From Page 3

for others. Sometimes when
people would tell me that they
were broke, that meant they
were down to $50 in their
checking accounts, but they
still had fat savings accounts
and fat parents at home to
send them money, and I
didn’t. I tired of explaining
this to people and tired of
being embarrassed when they
acted like they were feeling
sorry for me but never once
offered to help me out in any
way.

People I knew in college
with money (which was
almost everyone else) seemed
to act as if money really didn’t
matter to them...they would
spend a lot of it all the time,
and that seemed so wasteful. I
grew to hate their casualness
and their easy assumptions
that everyone they knew must
be “like them” somehow, and
I think it came as a great
shock when they found out
differently. They got uncom-
fortable, didn’t know how to
treat me, and usually ended
up avoiding me.

This was about the time
that hippies began to get a lot
of publicity and illogically to
me, it was their style of dress
and their manners that be-
came popular as a result.
Hippies were supposed to
look like bums, yeah, but you
were either an “in” hippie or
not. The other kids would BUY
their clothes. Their clothes
didn’t get raggedy from wear,
and they also had a choice
whether to wear raggedy
clothes or not. I didn’t. It was
an “in” thing to look as poor
as possible, but only in a
stylish way. So this whole trip
still left me outside the rest of
the world as far as I was
concerned.

People would poormouth all
the time and try to rent cheap
apartments and cut down on
their spending, etc., but they
did that only because it was a
cool thing to do and not
because there was any real
need to do so. It made me so
mad because that cut down on
the places I could rent and
that I had to rent because of
the amount of money I had to
spend (or didn’t have); and
then too, when enough
middle-class people decided
to always rent cheap places,
that left only higher-priced
places for me, which I
couldn't afford at all but had
to struggle with anyway. It
was terribly unfair and there
was absolutely nothing I
could do about it except be
angry. Another thing that
made me furious about that,
was when these people did
rent cheap places, they would
spend hundreds of dollars
fixing them up with expensive
furnishings I never would have
dreamed of (nor could I
possibly afford), and I again
was not “in” because my
place was never as nice as
anybody else’s.

College made me angry
because I was encouraged at
every turn to make it my life’s
work perpetuating the mid-
dle-class system, which I not
only was excluded from but
which had victimized and
shamed me from the start.

But the absolute worst
thing that happened to me in
college was that these mid-
dle-class pressures and val-
ues became so strong that I
found myself selling out to
them. I conformed, in order to

be accepted. I spent money I
shouldn’t have and went
hungry so that I could have

some clothes that were
reasonably in style. I drank
beer and went out to eat. I
adopted some of the attitudes
of my so-called friends, in
order to become a part of their
group, although that kind of
total integration was never
really possible. I began to
think of myself as middle
class, and then, after a while,
I decided that by virtue of my
new knowledge of some of the
attitudes, manners, and
styles, that indeed now I had
become a middle-class wo-
man. That got me into some
circles where before I would
have been excluded. But I was
always trying to be like
everyone else and I was
completely miserable doing it,
because I just did not have the
same background they did
and never got the hang of
about % of the necessary
things that come naturally to
middle-class people. So in
many ways I was still an
outsider no matter what I did,
with the exception that now I
had people to talk to, and
since that had been a major
part of my goal in the first
place, I felt I had made some
real progress.

There were other people in
college from poor families,
too, but instead of making
friends with them and sharing
our common bonds, I had sold
out completely enough that I
now turned on them and used
them as objects of ridicule as
fervently as I had once been
oppressed. The middle class
was a place I wanted to be so
badly that once I felt a taste of
it, I was not about to give it up
for anything. It was a part of
looking out for myself, but at
the expense of trying to
completely negate and deny
all that had been a part of me
for twenty years of my life.

And then it was suddenly
over. I was out in the world at
last, my future seemingly
secure, with my past safely
buried behind four years of
hard work and a degree and
my newly-adopted middle
class consciousness. But I
soon discovered, to my
horror, that my past would not
lie still in its grave. The
feelings I grew up with did not
vanish into oblivion, and no
glorious life awaited me
simply because I held a magic
piece of paper in my hands.
No mere golden fleece was a
ticket to wealth and fame, and
I think I knew that deep down
inside all the time I was going
to school. I was torn between
despair and the still-urgent
desire to make a financially
secure life for myself.

I was caught between a rock
and a hard place. I had arrived,
I thought, at the gates of
middle-class heaven and had
not exactly been turned away
but there were not all that
many open arms, either. And I
was also being confronted
with my past, the same as
always. How was I going to
take this shy, sensitive,
still-imaginative woman, with
all her luggage of dreams,
needs, and unfulfilled desires,
to the promised land safely?
How could I ever get there
with all my fears, when I
couldn't even say things to
other people the way I really
meant? How could I reconcile
all those new things in myself
that didn’t really belong there,
attitudes I allowed into my
consciousness just because
other people told me they
were good? If I didn’t think
about it long and hard, I knew

it was going to destroy me. I
had met the enemy and
instead of fighting back, as I'd
always planned, I made
friends and took the enemy
within. I still felt more
strongly than ever that there
was something wrong with
me, that I was still somehow
not as good as other people. I
still carried a cloak of shame
around my shoulders, and this
time for some good reasons.

After agonizing over
thoughts like these for several
years, it occurred to me finally
that maybe, just maybe, there
was nothing wrong with me at
all. I'd accepted that judgment
for so long that it was like a
rut, and not so easy to get out
of. But just thinking about it
that way started to make me
feel good about myself for the
first time in many years, and
the more I thought about it,
the more free I felt, free to be
whoever I want and free of the
invalid, crippling judgments
of others, free of a false and
damning class identity and
more certain of my roots,
roots that were real, would not
go away no matter what I did,
and which were every bit as
valid as anyone else's.

I do not know if I will ever be
totally free from feelings of
inferiority of “not being good
enough”...I think that even if I
had a million dollars in my
pocket, in my heart I would
still feel like an 11-year-old
child sweating in the fields at
the bottom of everything; I
would still feel poor. Any
dignity I have claimed I have
fought for, just as I have
fought for material security,
and I have paid a terrible price.

The pain and suffering and
humiliation I have lived
through, many women will
never know, except third
world women and working
class women, many of whom
have just plain given up. I
think in many ways I was
lucky, because I had enough
incentive to keep going. A lot
of us didn’t make it, and in
working class words that
means death. I am sorry that
for a period in my life, I didn’t
help; if I bear any legitimate
shame today it is for that
alone.

My story is far from unique.
What I feel as a result of my
working class background I
share with millions, especially
third world women. The
reason I have told it is to get
to the gut issues, to try to say
(in what words I have) how it
feels to grow up being used by
society for what it can get out
of me and damn near bled dry.

The point of all this is that
no middle- or upper-class
woman can relate to my pain
until she can feel some of it
herself. I know in my guts if a
woman is from a working
class background, and I can
spot middle class values
coming at me from a mile
away. I’ve learned to depend a
lot on my gut-level feelings;
they warn me who is liable to
fuck me over the worst and
who is sensitive to my pain
and anger.

My anger about being
fucked over for my class and
caste is ABSOLUTELY INTOL-
ERABLE when I feel it coming
from women who think of
themselves as feminists, and I
feel it more and more strongly
every day.

To be a little more specific,
these are some of the things
that middle class women still
do to rip me off, put me down,

More on Page 16

Analysis...

From Page 3

responsible for her father's
Cadillac. In other words, a
working-class woman's pain
was countered by a middle-
class woman's guilt.

Guilt is a seductive tool to
manipulate and mask another's
pain and oppression. By
changing the focus of atten-
tion from another's real,
experienced pain and social
oppression, to a personal
mind-state such as guilt, a
middle-class woman justifies
in her mind the status quo,
i.e. her supremacy. She thinks
her guilt is more painful than a
working-class woman's entire
life of objective pain, (i.e. not
eating well, the necessity of
working at menial jobs etc.)
An uneasy conscience does
NOT equal a life of poverty.
Middle-class women must
begin with this understand-
ing. They must stop and listen
to the life experiences of
working-class women and
note the significant difference

between a working-class
world and their own. We are
responsible to listen and
change those of our actions
that continue to oppress other
women from different life si-
tuations. Likewise, men are
responsible to change their
attitudes and actions that are
oppressive towards women.

Once middle and upper
class women are aware of a
working-class woman's real
pain, they are responsible to
change their attitudes and
actions. Guilt does not
change the real conditions of
poverty. Guilt produces ac-
tions like Christmas food
baskets that make the poor
objects of pity, rather than
people responsible and capa-
ble of changing the conditions
of their own lives. A classist
person, who out of guilt
doesn’t want to be classist, is
like a racist or sexist person
trying not to be racist or
sexist. A guilty classist
person, in a hurried and
careless manner, will rush
about trying to collect work-
ing-class friends. A racist
analogy is the movie, “Guess
Who's Coming To Dinner.”
Oppressive attitudes and
manners don’t change out of
guilt. Sidney Poitier is de-
humanized in the artificial
gaiety of Spencer Tracy's and
Katherine Hepburn’s happy
liberal home. A change in
consciousness is needed, not
tokenism.

Working-class women are
angry. Anger is a creative
emotion when its true roots
are understood. Through that
understanding, a creative vi-
sion of a newer world is
developed. Right now, in
Denver, we are in the basic
anger/guilt stages of con-
sciousness. Working-class
anger is met with middle-
class apologetic guilt. What is
needed is that higher con-
sciousness of a woman's
world. A woman, in a
woman's world, will have both
the virtues and strengths of
both working and middle-
class experiences.

A creative, open and honest
discussion of classism is
needed in our present wo-
man’s community. Here are
some of the points that have
been brought up, but need
much more thought and work.
Readers are encouraged to
write in their reactions to this
issue. Come to the Big Mama
Rag office for the discussions
on class that will continue
throughout the year.

Page 15

SOME IDEAS TO EXPLORE

1. Love is bought and sold
in different ways in different
classes.

2. The women's Movement
is class conscious for the last
three or four years unlike
society in general.

3. We are checking out our
roots and seeing if they have
validity.

4. When you get to
professional levels, you don’t
necessarily have to adopt the
value system of that level.

5. In thinking about
revolution, middle and upper
class women see only materi-
al loss, not the potential
freedom from being alienated
from their bodies, their ener-
gies, and their strength.

6. Men don't like women
and treat them like a piece of
shit; working-class people are
“women” in the eyes of upper
class men (i.e., subservient,
“under control,” inferior, “us-
able.")

7. I. Women are an inferior
caste in the patriarchal sys-
tem. The classes of the
patriarchy are stamped into
women's consciousnesses,
and that criteria for determin-
ing worth is carried over into
our dealings with women. We
bring to our experiences with
other women our socialized
values of caste first (lack of
intrinsic worth as women) and
then class value judgments.
We tend to value women
according to the type of class
background they seem to be
coming from. The lower it is,
the less value we attribute.

7.11. As new issues of
feminism arise, we create
sub-castes (which is exactly
what we are “programmed” by
the patriarchy to do.) This
prejudice and discrimination
is based on the principle that
anything that threatens the
status quo is evil--i.e., the
system must remain intact at
all costs.

8. The difference between
class & caste is that in a class
system there can be mobility
and in a caste system there
cannot. What determines a
person's values is not the
present class or caste level; it
is the values one was taught
while growing up--how you
see yourself, other women,
the world--what kind of
support you got for what kind
of things.

9. I. “The cause of much
violence in America lies
within the process of allowing
and keeping one third of a
nation poor. This is obviously
linked to the institutionaliza-
tion of social, economic and
practical inequality.” Thomas
Rose, Violence in America

9. II. The caste system is
artificial because it imposes
predetermined values on us
without allowing us to
choose. Society says what our
values should be; not what
they can be.

10. The higher the caste
level, the more resistance to
change.

11. The working caste is
important to any higher castes
only because they provide the
labor to keep the system
running, not because they
have intrinsic worth as indivi-
duals.

12. The heroism of hard
work is not a social value.
Example: the 75-year-old
cleaning woman does not

More on Page 16

Page 16

a given

Janet Sergi

One thing about class, that is painful but is important, is
that each woman is but one man away from the bottom of the
heap. Women derive their economic and social status from their
closest male relative, i.e. father, husband, or brother, in a
patriarchal society.

Any privilege a woman receives comes from her male
guardian. He may be the benevolent father that sends her to
college to learn middle-class values/actions, or he may be the
dictatorial husband that beats and keeps her because he brings
home a paycheck.

The way we think, act, dress and talk are all products of our
class backgrounds. There are no originals. There are only origins:
We must accept the responsibilities of our pasts, to change our
futures. Look at your friends. If you are college educated and
middle-class, lo and behold, so are your charming and clever
friends. Narcissism reigns supreme. If you worked your way
through school, I bet your friends are honest, hard-working, no
bullshit types. Since each tends to think their way is the way, we
women tend to laugh, disregard and belittle other women of
different ethnic, social or class backgrounds.

The patriarchy, the white men in power, love this horizontal
hostility. If women, who are despised by men, despise, gossip
and effectively destroy each other too, then the patriarchy has NO
enemies. To think of acting in a way that makes another woman feel
inferior to yourself helps men control both women. As long as we
keep each other down, we avoid overthrowing the real enemy,
white ruling-class men. Classist ideas are men’s hateful
classifications of all people other than themselves. Men think if
they can classify people as inferior, the people themselves will
believe this propaganda and begin to hate the person just below
them in the male hierarchy of things. “Keep the hens pecking at
each other. And keep the chicks off my back,” are the basic sexist
and classist axioms of the male strategy to divide and conquer
women.

So when we women begin to examine how we oppress
working-class women, what we are really doing is beginning to
examine how deeply the patriarchy has brainwashed us into
hating other women.

Only through a deep and honest probing of our thoughts,
actions and beliefs, can we begin to create honest and loving
relationships with each other. This love that transcends our
patriarchal pasts is the basis for a woman's place, that place in
ourselves, that is truly ourselves; the woman space, the place
where our woman soul resides.

WOMEN & FINANCE

a column

Kathleen Richardson
Special Agent
Lincoln National Life Insurance Company

Being single, 23 and a professional life insurance agent I am
in a unique position to see where the lack of a good estate
planning program has caused unnecessary financial hardships,
deterioration of lifestyles and at times separated families. I have
been with Lincoln National Life Insurance Company long enough
to realize that only a very small number of people have a thorough
knowledge about what insurance really is.

I am going to be writing a series of articles for BIG MAMA
RAG to make you more aware of why a good insurance program is
essential and ways insurance can be to your benefit if you live, die
or quit.

Since the majority of you are single, my articles will deal
with needs of singles. However, I will also include information
dealing with children and husbands as statistics say that they will
be a part of our lives at one time or another.

The articles in the coming months will be covering income
protection, estate planning, maintaining independence, retire-
ment income for yourself, trusts, endowments, hospitalization
coverage and special circumstances caused by marriage, divorce
and children.

These articles will be of interest to you in that most of them
deal with possible situations that can occur and the outcome if
you have or have not taken precautions against unfortunate
occurrences.

Good qualified insurance agents can inform you of various
situations that commonly occur and ways in which you can
protect yourself and those around you.

My first column next month will be concerned with income
protection for the single female and the importance of it with or
without children.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

Working Woman’s Account...

From Page 15

and keep me from feeling like
a whole person:

1. There is an assumption
about the ready availability of
money that is just not true for
working-class women. This
assumption extends itself in
many ways. For example, I
bitterly resent being criticized
for working just to earn
money. Middle-class people
often seem to think that the
only good reason to have a job
is if that job has some
redeeming social value. They
don’t seem to understand that
for me, there is only one
choice: to earn a living any
way I can. Earning money is
not a luxury: it’s a necessity
for me. Working-class people
do not have the privilege of
choosing what kind of work
they do: they have to sell their
labor to survive. Middle-class
women have little sensitivity
to my survival problems and
necessities, and very little
awareness of their overriding
intensity and importance to
me.

This also extends to my
hatred of middle-class con-
cern with physical appearance
and dress. I am too busy
earning a living and building
toward a feminist world to
care about those things; they
are not survival priorities. Any
spare money I may happen to
have, I recycle to the feminist
community. Appearance and
dress are at the bottom of the
list, and I get very angry when
other women show by their
attitude or to my face, even,
that they are not impressed by
me because of what I wear or
how I look to them. If my
hands are dirty, it’s because I
have been working hard, and
there is no shame in that. I
resent their clean hands that
help no one and are most
often used to shut doors in my
face. I do happen to like nice
clothes, but I resent the
implication that this is, first of
all, easily available to me, and
second, that I should wear
nice clothes, or that there is
something wrong with me if I
don't.

2. I also resent the frequent
use of rhetoric by middle-class
women. Communicating is
very hard, because I relate
best to plain, straightforward
talk, and I hate women not
saying what they really mean.
That is a male trick that
women have fallen for, and
another form of lying. I’m tired
of assumptions, implications,
and big words that mask gut
feelings. I object to middle-
class mindfuck games that
always avoid the real issues.

This kind of dishonest
communication involves so-
cial skills I never learned, even
though I went to college, and
it leaves me out of their world
in a very significant way. It is
another way of excluding me,
avoiding me, and putting me
down, and I resent it.

3. I hate pseudoliberalism
in the middle class. It is a
posture that breeds the
indiscriminate using of people
for what you can get out of
them. Liberalism is the
privilege of the middle class,
because it is a choice they can
make freely and they do not
have to back up their choices
because they have the power
not to if they choose that.
Radicalism and anarchy are
the only prerogatives of the
working class, that and
revolution. I'm tired of middle
class women agreeing that I
have not had the same
advantages they've had and
how it really is a shame what
society does to us, and then
turning around and using
those same advantages against
me (like communication
skills).

4. Middle-class attitudes
breed insensitivity to pain in
others, the tendency to ignore
hassles instead of confronting
them, an unwillingness to
listen, and definite resistance
to change. (How will anything
ever change this way?) If a
middle-class woman can't feel
my pain, she won’t confront
me hassling her, she won't
listen to me when I tell her
how she is fucking me over,
and she damn well won’t give
up one single precious previ-
lege to change.

5. Many middle-class
women have immature atti-
tudes toward personal re-
sponsibility and accountabil-
ity to others. She has a
security and independence
the working-class woman
doesn’t have. Middle-class
women are not open to giving,
whether it’s money (especially
that), friendship, love, or
concern. The middle class is
definitely out to hold on to
what it’s got, even if that
means fucking people over in
the process, and I can’t stand
that.

Any time I have ever really
needed help, it has almost
always been a working-class
woman who has held out her
hand and given me money out
of her working-woman's
pocket, who has taken my
tears gently into the pain of
her own heart, who has led me
fearlessly back to where I
needed to be. What I want to
know is, middle-class women,
WHERE THE HELL WERE
YOU when I was down and
out, you in your houses with
your bank accounts and your
precious privileges?

Women in the feminist
movement are still using the
male privileges of money and
power to put me down, ignore
me, or use me, and I’m sick
and tired of my anger and
frustration being dismissed as
silly, unnecessary or unim-
portant, when the real prob-
lem is that these same women
are perpetuating the worst
evils of the patriarchy by
holding on to those same
privileges that oppress us all
as women. They refuse to
criticize themselves or accept
the fact that THEY are as
much an oppressor as any
man.

A lot of middle-class
women, too, aren’t aware of
what they’re doing. They have
to be TAUGHT not to oppress,
not to perpetuate a system full
of privileges for the few and
out of reach of many,
TAUGHT not to unconsciously
(and probably unwillingly)
serve the patriarchy which is
destroying us.

Any time another woman
puts me down because I am
not knowledgeable, inarticu-
late, indecisive, ill-at-ease,
angry, or worse, because I
have nothing to offer, she
becomes my enemy. She joins
with the patriarchy in oppos-
ing my right to speak, to
learn, to interact, to contri-
bute, to be. She opposes my
working woman's valid pain,
and that is a position I can
only attack in her until she can
meet me, with love, on equal
ground, openly, wanting
nothing. I refuse to listen to her
classist demands until she
has recognized that mine are
far more urgent and have
waited too long. Then --
maybe then -- we can work
together at last. And that is
what has to happen.

Nobody can undo what has
been done. But every feminist
has an overriding obligation to
herself and to her sisters to
thoroughly examine her own
class background and start
getting rid of things in her
head that The Man has put
there and to replace it with
love, respect, and concern for
ALL women.

I still do not personally have
money or power, but I have
words -- and love. I give both
to this struggle, that we may
all arise brave and free and
strong. Working-class women
must unite in solidarity
against their oppression, and
all other women must listen to
our cry. We now demand it, on
the pain of our entire lives.

Analysis...

From Page 15
I make front-page headlines for
raising a family of 12, but a
woman lawyer who promotes
a youth center does.
In the process of the
deification of the system, we
commit ourselves to whatever
values that system wants to
lay on us.
Stepping out of our
roles and abandoning a
middle-class value system is
the same as committing a
societal crime--when we won't
do what we’re “supposed” to
do, we shake up the order of
things as they are. We
threaten the Almighty Sys-
tem. This is why radicals are
frightening, and radical les-
bians are twice as frightening,
because they are defying the
value system of society twice
over.
Materials to Study:
A. Back issues of Ain't I a
Woman on file in Big Mama
Rag office.
B. Yesterday’s Lessons by
Sharon Isabell sold by
A Woman's Place Bookstore
5251 Broadway
Oakland, Calif. 94618
C. Absent A Working Woman’s
Story Absent From The
Majority Working Women in
America by Nancy Seifer

send to The American Jewish
Committee
Institute of Human
Relations
165 East 56th St.
New York, New York
10022
An Analysis.

D. The fall issue of Quest
$7 per year - $2 per copy
Quest: A Feminist Quarterly
P.O. Box 8843
Washington, D.C. 20003

- Janet Sergi

Shecat

The description of working
class and middle-class back-
grounds and those women’s
relationships to men are reprinted
from the article, “On the Signifi-
cance of Class to the Revolutionary Movement,” written by the
Radical Feminists in Vol. 3, No. 1
issue of Ain’t I a Woman, August
18, 1972.

Through A Class

Darkly

Sandia

The core of all that has been
theoretized about class comes
down to this: the standard in
America revolves around what
is male and young and white
and middle - upper-class. Any
deviation from that ingrained,
mediated standard is sus-
pect. Any judging on that
basis is classist. Any pun-
ishment (mental, physical,
sexual, spiritual) is caste. Any
counter action to that norm--
any word, gesture, thought,
institutional change -- is
freedom. The one most
powerful counter is to change
the very ways we PERCEIVE
that norm: MEDIA.

With no apologies to
McLuhan, I would like to carry
his theories one step further
than he took them. Media are
extensions of our bodies
according to him (i.e. the car
is an extension of our feet, the
telephone an extension of our
mouth and ears, the computer
our brain). More important,
media are not just extensions
of reality, they have become
reality itself.

Since the moon flights,
simulation (models of reality)
has become a familiar con-
cept. We watched a simula-
tion of the moon walks and
landings on TV -- reality
twice removed. Football re-
plays are simulations of a sort
and many people prefer
watching the game on TV to
the in-person event. At a
Three Dog Night concert,
people seated way the hell out
from the stage watched the
performance on TV sets.
Once, at Yellowstone National
Park, I watched a man taking
pictures of Old Faithful. He
never looked at the geyser
through the lens of his own
eyes. When the spouting had
died away, he turned to his
family with his Polaroid shots
saying, “Here it is.” The
pictures were for him more an
actual reality than the natural
phenomenon itself. In a
cartoon I read many years
ago, two children are in a car
that has a flat tire. It is
raining, and they are ques-
tioning their father who is
frantically trying to change
the tire. His response, the
caption, reads: “But I can’t
change the channel. This is
reality.” Indeed, reality de-
pends on what channel we are
on.

Does all this seem a bit

To the Man

From Page 4
No Mr. Man Reporter

removed from the issue of
class? Rethink the looking
glass. TV and Hollywood,
papers and records, books,
and radio, etc. have become
the glasses through which we
look to ascertain reality. Yet
all of them can project an
image that is seemingly real
and false in the truest sense.

Ads are what people usually
focus their criticism on
because they are more obvi-
ous culprits, fostering an
unreal sense of wants and
needs and idealizations. We
know we don’t all fit the
beautiful people in the ads.
Ads for sure are classist in
that they define who is in and
who is out. But ads are part of
content. I am talking about
the very style of media for it is
the nature of their structure
that has become the pseudo
reality. TV exists even if you
never watch it. If you stop
here and argue over content,
and many analyses of media
do, you will end up at the
usual battlefront where the
war against class cannot be
won. You will demand that
women have more power and
prominence in media: You
will demand more Barbara
Walters, more Gloria Stein-
ems. More shows for women,
more women--or minorities--
in ads (remember how a few
years ago a Black in an ad was
obvious tokenism and now it’s
so commonplace that Blacks
themselves are putting out
their own ads of middle-class
Blacks). Cooptation. IBM
knows where it's at. An ad of
theirs reads: IBM, NOT JUST
DATA: REALITY.

Plato’s parable about the
Empyrean cave reads very
much like a multi-media light
show. Humans are chained in
the cave, legs and necks
fettered. They remain in the
same spot, able to look
forward only. A fire burns
behind them, casting sha-
dows on the wall of the cave in
front of them. All they can see
of reality is its reflection. Very
much like this, TV is a
reflection of images--all me-
dia are. Only now we can't tell
the front from the back,
Nature from the simulation,
butter from margarine (it’s not
nice to fool Mother Nature),
man from mediaized man. It is
clear who is chained, but
most of us are still arguing
that the projectionist be

Reporter...

We didn’t have trouble defining a woman's culture
You had trouble understanding it.

A Woman’s Culture. A Woman's civilization.

A world where women can walk the streets without fear of being raped
because they are hated for being women.
A world where war doesn’t rip the earth apart in 100 different places
every year because the men are busy playing with their army trucks.
A world without obscene telephone callers.
A world where people don’t go to prison because they're poor and
their name isn’t Richard Nixon.

A whole world.

changed or liable to equal
opportunity employment.

We have confused our
benchmarks for reality. Hu-
mankind should be the mea-
sure of all things, as indeed
the Renaissance claimed. But
we are measured by our
shadows; our extensions are
our reflections (car, home,
job, TV, etc.).

Trying to see only in the
reflection is where class
enters. For when reality is a
by-product of perception, then
she who controls the looking
glass and appraises the
extension has power--and
class. We are talking about
equivalents of human beings
in the sense of property and
solely on a material level.
What we need changed is an
essential equation. Mankind
is actually an extension
of himself. We are the Godhead
manifested, God realized in
object form. But we, the
physical equivalents of spir-
it -- rather than remerging --
move right as it were
objectifying ourselves even
further:

manifested
GOD = Man = MEDIA
MANifested

Reality encompasses all parts
of this metaphysical, organic
process. We have somehow
evolved to a point where
perception of reality is more
mechanical and dependent on
media rather than taking in the
whole process.

In such a mediaized object
society, it is easy to see how
women have become one
more object or extension of
men. We have developed a
right-sided perception that
moves from man to exten-
sions of man, rather than a
total vision which sees hu-
mans in an equation with the
one, the Ultimate. Women
because they have the innate
capacity to duplicate them-
selves, don’t have to objectify
themselves. Men, because
they cannot, mirror them-
selves in these extensions. They do it rationally, not
bodily, moving more and more
external, away from an inner,
subjective realization of him-
self and reality.

Moving left through that
equation means crawling out
of the cave, not just changing
the projectionist. The cave
metaphor has become like a
More on Page 18

A real world that could be run on the values of women in touch with
ourselves and our power as women.
But power scares you because you only know one way to use it

and that’s your way.
So you're afraid
of us together.

Afraid that you will be shot in the back.
Afraid that you will be ridiculed daily.

Afraid that you will have to scramble for someone’s supper.

Afraid that you will be murdered with a broom handle.
And yes right now we are unreasonable.

We are so unreasonable.
We are so perfectly
reasonably
unreasonable...

Page 17

WIT House

Kim Branscombe

“There is no women’s movement in Denver.” She spoke
bitterly, as one does who has paid her dues and is weary of
promises made but unkept, issues debated but never resolved.

“But what about N.O.W.?,” I said, “What about YWCA?
There’s Big Mama Rag and C.R. groups and the Rape Coalition
and....”

“Intellectualizing. Words and Ideas, consciousness-raising
is done by and for middle-class white Feminists. What is there in
Denver for working women? For someone like me--a divorced,
working mother of four? What help--real, concrete help--is there?
None,” she said firmly. I pulled my trump card.

“What about,” I cried triumphantly, “Women in Transition
House?”

“Oh, that place. I bet about half of the women that stay
there have other places to go. They don’t really need to be there.”

“Well, listen. I've spent some time at that house. I’ve seen
that they do refer women to doctors or lawyers or whoever can
help them. And I’m moving in there because I believe that they are

helping women and that’s what I want to do.”

That is the general gist of a
conversation I had three
months ago with the mother
of a friend of mine. Since
then, I have moved into WIT
House and staffed it, some-
times with other women,
sometimes alone. I have seen
five staffers burn out and
leave, and seen about 150
transient women and children
come and go this summer. I've
learned a lot about women,
politics, myself, and the
welfare department-- and I've
found that the situation for
Denver women, though far
from ideal, is still not quite as
bleak as my friend's mother
said it was.

There is limited help availa-

ble for working women, and

divorced mothers. Emergency
food can be obtained through
the Food Stamp Department,
Salvation Army, and a few
churches and community ac-
tion centers. With alimony or
custody hassles, they may be
able to get free or cheap legal
help. Legal Aid will not handle
the actual divorce. The NOW
office, Big Mama Rag, WIT
House and the YWCA re-
source center have lists of
women and men lawyers that
sometimes take cases with
little or no fee.

If these women need
counseling and moral sup-
port, WIT House, Gilpin

House, Creative Divorce and
many individual therapists
counsel women or refer them
to someone who can give
them competent, sympathetic
help.

Warren Village, an apart-
ment complex, provides day
care for its resident single-
parent families.

If she is gay, there are
Lesbian counselors and
groups in Denver. A national
Lesbian Mothers Defense
Fund is forming.

If she is Chicana and on
welfare, there is a community-
based help organization for
her (See July issue of Big
Mama Rag.)

Denver General Hospital
and Children’s Hospital pro-
vide free health care for
low-income mothers and
children.

If she has been raped, and
needs legal advice, moral
support, etc., she can contact
any of the groups listed in the
August “Rape” issue of Big
Mama Rag.

So on the positive side
there are individuals and
organizations that give time
and energy to help women.
Most of them are understaffed
and underfunded, or require a
lot of form-filling and hassling
with red tape, but they are
there if needed.

However, if a divorced
working mother is being

discriminated against in her
job, needs a bank loan or is
having trouble getting credit--
then she'd better get used to
her situation because, as my
friend’s mother said, there is
nothing. She can go to the
Civil Rights Commission. She
can hire a lawyer if she can
afford one or go to Legal Aid
and hope they take her case.
She can go to the American
Civil Liberties Union; and if
they are going to get a lot of
publicity and are pretty sure
they'll win the case, they may
help her. The last I heard of
Esther Goodyear, she is still
trying to get money together
for a lawyer in her three-year-
old anti-discrimination suit
against Gates Rubber Com-
pany.

This important area is
where Denver women’s
groups are weakest. There is
no powerful, united women’s
group to help with class
action suits. If I am wrong,
please call at WIT House and
tell me, because we get three
or four calls a day from
frustrated, angry women who
are being discriminated a-
gainst.

And if this hypothetical
mother of four is crazy, she
and everyone around her had
better get used to that, too.
There is counseling and
day-care therapy available for
women who are still function-
ing in the community. But the
halfway houses and hospitals
are either expensive or have a
long waiting list. When she
attempts suicide or seriously
hurts someone, then she may
be hospitalized. She may also
have a hard time getting out if
she gets well. Denver's care
for mental patients of any sex
is hideously inadequate.

So much for the traditional
resources that Denver women
have. Enter Women In Transi-
tion House. Yes, good old
much-maligned, crisis-ridden,
understaffed and underfunded
WIT House. For those who
have never heard of it, the
house offers temporary shel-
ter and food for women and
children who are going
through a transition. This may
mean a change of lifestyle,
mental or physical changes.
The staff women make refer-
rals for counseling, food help,
legal help, etc., and do some
non-professional counseling
on their own. The house is
defined as a “safe place” so
women make a contract when
they come in ‘not to harm
themselves or anyone else.
When they break this con-
tract, they are asked to leave.

More on Page 18

Page 18

RIP BOOKSTORE  
737 E. 17th Ave.

LARGE WOMEN'S SECTION

ALSO BOOKS ON GAY LIBERATION,  
CHINA, CUBA, VIETNAM, MARXISM,  
ANARCHISM, U.S. IMPERIALISM,

ALL BOOKS 20% OFF AT

ALL TIMES  
Monday 12-6

Tuesday - Saturday 2-9

Alicia’s

Mexican Restaurant

278 Downing 777-9904  
“Good Home Made Food”

4615 East 23rd  
321-9103

CRAFTS, SUPPLIES, CLASSES, POTTERY,  

WEAVING & MACRAME

WIT House...

From Page 17

Each woman is expected and  
encouraged to clean up her  
messes and her children’s,  
and to take steps to solve her  
own problems.

But the house is definitely  
not just a haven for white  
middle-class feminists. One  
night in mid-August I took  
inventory of the women  
staying there:

One German - Kentuckian  
with three daughters

One Psychotic Jesus Freak  
in her 20's

An exotic dancer, 19 and  
one German shepherd

An ex-jailbird with two  
huge dogs

An alcoholic Sioux woman,

One 60-year-old derelict

A former alcoholic and  
mental patient

A radical lesbian with a  
sheepdog

A divorcee with a baby

A divorced woman with  
two children, hiding from her  
drunk husband

A former junkie and apart-  
ment manager

One newly-divorced 40-  
year-old waitress

A gay couple with one  
four-year-old child and two  
cats

One middle-class white  
feminist with a cat

That's a total of fifteen  
women, seven children, four  
dogs and three cats. Seven  
were on welfare or trying to  
be. Two were in physical  
danger. Eight had nowhere  
else to stay. Typically, 50% of  
the transients are hassling  
with the welfare department;  
20% are fleeing from brutal  
husbands or boyfriends; 20%  
are in non-crisis situations.  
This is defined as that they are  
crashing in town, or having  
some other place to stay but  
needing to be among a  
supportive group of women  
for a few days to straighten  
out their heads.

And, finally, there is the  
energy-draining 10% of wo-  
men who are alcoholics, drug  
addicts, rip-offs, or mentally  
disturbed. They are the main  
reason for high burn-out and  
rapid staff turnover.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

The women on welfare are, I  
think genuinely helped by  
their stay at WIT. They at least  
get support and good advice  
and a roof over their heads  
while they hassle with the  
bureaucrats. The women run-  
ning from dangerous men  
have a frustrating way of  
sometimes returning to the  
same unchanged situation.  
Most of the time, however,  
they manage to leave town,  
get counseling, get a divorce,  
a restraining order, or whatev-  
er is necessary for safety.  
Maria came here, for example,  
with her two children. Her  
husband had been beating her  
up for most of the year. She  
was exhausted and fright-  
ened. She left her kids at her  
mother-in-law’s one day and  
her husband kidnapped them  
and took them to Texas. After  
a long time, spending $300 on  
a lawyer, and many disap-  
pointments she got them  
back. Then her husband was  
put on a restraining order and  
the house was locked up for  
three days. A place out of town  
was found for her and she  
finally was able to get money  
to fly herself and her children  
to a new city.

The women who come to  
get their heads together away  
from husband, family, etc. are  
also sometimes able to figure  
out alternatives to the roles,  
games, or lifestyle they are  
having trouble with. Again,  
this depends on the individual  
woman. The remaining 10%, I  
am sorry to say, are not likely  
to be helped much by WIT or  
any other agency. Often, they  
have been bounced around  
from agency to institution like  
a human tennis ball for most  
of their life, and all of the  
social workers, social psychi-  
atrists, counselors, rehabili-  
tation centers, reform  
schools, hospitals, and jails  
have only worsened the  
frustration, self-hatred, and  
despair that many of these  
women feel. Lucy had gone  
from institution to institution  
all of her life. She came here  
directly from jail, where she  
had been held on suspicion of  
robbery and released without  
charges. Her boyfriend was  
still in jail, her car was in  
hock, and her dogs were in the  
kennel at a charge of $12 a  
day. She was angry, hopeless  
and uptight about being here.  
She distrusted any attempts  

Through A Class Darkly

From Page 17

box that has restricted our  
vision on one inhibiting level  
of reality--a level that sees  
people as objects and not  
process.

Media in and of itself is  
classless; it is only a tool.  
Humans define the use of  
tools, and since that human  
has mostly been male, it has  
often meant that perceptions  
of women in history have not  
been her story. History, which  
is print media in its most  
ancient guise, has been a  
mirror in which women have  
either been missing or dis-  
torted. Yet history is western  
civilization’s basis for truth.  
Lesbians, in particular, have  
been seen through the glass  
darkly. Religious articles are  
still being written showing  
Lesbians as pawns of the  
devil, though ironically the  
Biblical quotations are often  
attributed to Paul, as bitter a  
misogynist as ever lived.  
Writers from the Denver Post,  

“picture with a  

in their role as present day  
historians, just recently took a  
wide angle lens at close range cleverly  
making four beautiful women  
seem like depraved outcasts.  
But if print media is our  
history, electronic media is  
our future. This fact is  
relevant to women of all  
classes. We all watch TV; we  
all go to the movies. But  
unless we are aware of the  
way media filters reality and  
fosters notions of class, we  
cannot begin to counteract it.

Both class and media  
overpower any attempts wo-  
men may make at self-defini-  
tion. If they begin to see class  
as one dehumanizing aspect  
of media, one more extension  
of male society, then class  
can be put in its proper  
perspective. When we keep  
seeing ourselves as objects, it  
becomes easier to align  
people into material levels of  
value. This is what has  

happened in a society which  
pays more attention to its  
objects and extensions rather  
than to its emotional and  
spiritual ties to life processes.  
Media used to view the world  
in such a distorted way are  
inferior products of an inferior  
process.

Women, then, must stop  
copying this male model. That  
means setting up a system of  
communications which de-  
fines people, and especially  
women, in terms of her  
spiritual being. Women need  
to kill the onus of class with a  
reflection of vision back to the  

One, for woman is the  
Feminine principle made  
manifest, not media made  
manifest.

Separatism is a word used  
to scare us. But as it is  
obvious that women need to  
separate themselves from a  
system of economics where  
money becomes the definition  
of worth, it should be obvious  
that we also need to separate  
ourselves from the whole way  
our society has of looking at  

reality, especially when we  
sense we are restricted on one  
level of reality, and that, badly  
distorted in someone else’s  
image. Creating for ourselves  
an alternate media means  
insisting on reordering our  
levels of perception both as  
senders and receivers. We  
must devise verbs and pic-  
tures, newspapers and TV  
programs, philosophical es-  
says, radio--all media--that  
will speak for us in terms of  
our original relationship to  
matter. That creation is a  
return to that level of reality  
where class hierarchy is not  
possible, for it is a return to a  
person-to-person perspective  
that is not a function of media  
but of woman soul.

Sandia

mediaized = propagandized, mind-controlled,  
conditioned by media.

1 This idea is forcefully  
developed by Ti-Grace Atkin-  
son in her book Amazon  
Odyssey (New York, 1973)

to help her. Finally, she  
attacked and hurt two women.  
It became obvious at the end  
that she was mentally unbal-  
anced. When she hurt two  
women in an all-out psychotic  
“attack”, we tried to get her  
hospitalized. Denver General  
Hospital promised to take her,  
but then turned her out on the  
street. There was no other  
place for her to go and the last  
I heard, she was crashing with  
a man who periodically traded  
sex for shelter.

I have learned a lot from  
WIT House. I learned how  
responsibility can weigh like  
concrete on the shoulders.  
I've learned to shrug off that  
responsibility when it threat-  
ens to crush me to the  
ground. I’ve learned the  
limitations of the social  
service agencies. I have some  
inkling of what an awesome  
task it is going to be to topple  
this stifling, patriarchal bu-  
reaucracy. I can do a lot of  
household maintenance when  
I need to now. I can  
sometimes cool down a fight.  
I feel much more comfortable  
with my identity as a woman, a  
sexual, political, feeling,  
thinking, doing being. It still  
hurts to see the self-destruct-  
ive trips my sisters get into,  
but I also see them getting  
stronger, and so I can’t  
despair yet.

So I can say now, looking  
back on that conversation  
with my friend's mother, that  
she was too cynical and I was  
too naive. The women’s  
movement is far from being a  
powerful, cohesive force for  
change in Denver. We cannot  
yet throw down the bureau-  
cracies and crush the institu-  
tions that degrade and brutal-  
ize women and children. What  
we can do is provide alterna-  
tives to these institutions.  
Women are changing, in their  
roles, self-images, expecta-  
tions, and perceptions of  
society. WIT House, with all  
of its crises is still a good  
place to go through changes.

631-701 ?

as W igh; ee loatia~y  
Te | est Selection.  
Or folk, videocracs  
anil (VES records

| ite COW.

OPEN 10-6 MON-SAT.

Ferretta

Music Service

777-5714

82 South  
Broadway

Denver

Announcements

Dream Workshop - We are a  
* women exploring the  
feminine archetype through dream  
: it is to examine  

) as,  

artistic  

Images!  
dreams, fantasy in various  
projects. Wednesday even-  
ings. 449-0231  

Gay Women’s Open House -  
every other Tuesday starting  
in Boulder at 27th and  
Baseline Apt. 502 499-3441  

FREE SUBSCRIPTION TO BIG  
MAMA RAG!!! BMRA will give  
a free one-year subscription to anyone  

who can get us two new  
distribution outlets. Call  
322-2010  

Any woman who has had  
trouble getting car insurance  
or has high rates for any  
reason other than bad driving  
call Claire Cooper at the News  
at 892-5207 or 892-5000 and  
leave a message.  

Become part of a profit-sharing  
SEWING CO-OP!! Call  
Judith at 355-5332 for more  
information.  

Something to think about,  
ponder if you will: recently a  
woman was offered a freelance  
position with an organization and a sum was quoted  
which sounded good at first.  
But after several contacts and  
some soul-searching, she  
negotiated with a representa-  
tive that her knowledge was  
invaluable, but intangible. The  
final result was that she was  
paid three times the amount  
first offered when she con-  
fronted the organization for  
more money.  

Do we as women underesti-  
mate our value to the business  
structure? Would it help us to  
be more self-confident and  
self-assertive? What would it  
hurt? We can only be denied.  
(submitted by an anonymous  
media consultant)  

THURSDAY  

On July 1st of this year, a  
women’s retreat opened in a  
gorgeous cabin located on the  

response to our letter in  
the August issue of  

and the varied needs  
expressed by women who have  
already attended the retreat  
indicate the need for greater  
facilities that would be con-  
trolled and owned by women.  
A 23-acre site has been found  
in the Adirondack forest in  
upstate New York. The  
property includes a large main  
house, several cabins, a  
converted barn, and a large  
pond.  

Because of the diversity of  
the facilities we see the  
possibility of meeting the  
needs of many different  
women; women with child-  
ren; women who want to be  
alone; women interested in as  
much interaction with other  
women as possible; women  
who wish to visit for a long  
time or just a few days. Space  
could be utilized as work-  
shops, shops, a coffee house,  
a feminist library, for women’s  
art.  

What is needed to make it  
all work is energy in the form  
of women with skills to share,  
women willing to invest  
money and/or time. OUR  
NEED IS URGENT! If you can  
help please let us know.  
Highland Community Wo-  
men’s Retreat, Paradox, N.Y.  
12858  
“Images of Women in Litera-  
ture” classes are starting in  
Park Hill. Call Alita Perkopf  
333-4785 if interested.  
Notice! Women printmakers  
who wish to be in a catalog-  
directory write NOW Women  
& Arts, Adele Aldridge,  
Graphics Coordinator, 31  
Chapel Lane, Riverside, Con-  
necticut 06878  

October 31  

8 PM - 2 AM.  

Tickets - $3.00  

ENTERTAINMENT BY:  

“Rew Thoney & Evprre  

Cocktails, Beer  

Mexican Food  
ON SALE  

Classifieds  

Gay Coalition Office -  

Tim Me Nutty - 931-9250  

Sagaris: Feminist wood service.  
Aspen and pine delivered.  
$60.00/cord, $35.00/half cord.  
Call 744-3807 or BMR office  
322-2010.  

ASTROGRAPHOLOGY. Forget  
astrologers’ simplistic “chart  
analyses.” No computers! No  
“research” photocopies! Living,  
breathing, competent Feminist  
Psychologist (Ph.D.) uniquely  
blends astrology and handwriting  
analysis, fantastically multiply-  
ing analytical and predictive  
power! (You've seen my very  
successful advertisements in Ms.  
magazine. Their readers have  
been outstandingly responsive at  
$9.00.) Rush birthdate, brief  
handwritten biography, and only  

$8.00 (Big Mama introductory  
rate): Dr. Sarty, Box 64581-H  
Rancho Park, California 90064.  

TRAIN ONE: Moon and Shadow.  
Stories and poems by Zel Latner.  
$2. A small classic in the genre of  
women’s writing. Of interest to  
CR or creative writing groups, or  
a handsome gift. Order from the  
author at Her Own Press (C), 79  
Isabella Lane, Pleasant Hill,  
Calif. 94523. Illustrated.  

ASTROLOGER. Birth chart and  
analysis, $15. Future trends, $15.  
Send date, place, time of birth,  
and questions, to: Angele  
Blanton, P.O. Box 645, Estes  
Park, Colo. 80517.  

Help Services  

ABORTION COUNSELING  
Alternatives, Inc. 1345 Spruce St.,  
Boulder  
Creative Health Services 4645 E. Colfax  
Ministerial Council  
Abortion Referral and  
Counseling Service  

Boulder Valley Clinic  

BIRTH CONTROL  
Planned Parenthood  
Westside Office [P.P.]  

COMMUNICATION  
Big Mama Rag  
Institute Mountain West  
NOW Newsletter  

1400 Lafayette  
2346 Broadway  

2030 E. 20th Ave.  
32nd & Zuni  

1724 Gaylord  

2096 Emerson  

send to 4805 E. Kentucky Ave.  
Apt. 206, Denver 80222 by  
1st of month  

COMMUNITY RESOURCES  

Capital Hill Tenants Union  
Common Market Food Coop  
St. Andrews Church  
Boulder Gay Lib.  

Denver Gay Coalition  
Rape/Help Lines  

S.E. Denver Neighborhood  
Services Bureau  

High St. Rape Awareness  
Boulder Hotline  

1460 Pennsylvania  
1100 Champa  
2015 Glenarm  

1450 Pennsylvania  

227 Clayton  
3401 High  

EMPLOYMENT  
Better Jobs for Women 1545 Tremont  
Womanpower 2475 Broadway #12  

Boulder  

HEALTH SERVICES  
Colo. Gen. Hosp. Clinics  
Creative Health Services  
Colo. Springs Women’s  
Health  
Denver Metro Health Clinic  
Hip Health Center  
People’s Clinic  
Boulder Valley Clinic  
LEGAL SERVICES  

Women's Law Co-op  
Colorado Divorce Council  

4200 E. 9th Ave.  
4645 E. Colfax  

409 E. Fontanero  
645 Bannock  

1304 Elati  

999 Alpine, Boulder  
2346 Broadway  

1026 Bannock  
1115 Broadway  

Big Mama Rag 1724 Gaylord  
LITERATURE  

Book House 5174 Broadway  

Radical Information Project 737 17th  

Militant 1203 California  

WOMEN’S GROUPS  
Ft. Collins Women’s Center  
Women in Transition  
Lesbian Resource Center  
National Organization for  
Women  
Women in Community Service  
Denver Women’s Resource  
Center  
Women's Resource Center, DU  
Boulder Women’s Resource  

629 Howes St.  
1895 Lafayette  
Boulder  

1400 Lafayette  
623-4349  

1545 Tremont  

Center 1419 Pine  
CU Women's Coalition UMC 181  
Taproot 8712 Baseline, Boulder  

A. A. VILLAGE STRIPPER  
1403 SO. BROADWAY  

DENVER, COLORADO 80210  

(303) 744-9911  

FURNITURE STRIPPING & ANTIQUES  
PAINT AND VARNISH  

REMOVED FROM WOOD  

& METAL  

$52-2472  

449-6565  
321-0567  
757-4442  

255-2009  
442-5160  

388-4777  
458-5985  

322-2010  
$73-6394  

825-2329  
893-3430  
255-9775  
492-8567  
778-6536  

321-8191  
571-1265  
447-1665  

244-4189  

442-5468  

394-8581  
321-0567  

574-6666  
222-3344  
449-6050  
442-5160  

892-0904  
534-2842  
322-2010  

789-1009  
825-7413  
623-2825  

255-2435  
494-5306  

831-7707  
222-0870  
753-3511  
447-9670  

492-7735  
494-6161  

RICHARD S. HERMAN  

Page 19  

BMR SOLD HERE  

Common Market 1100 Champa  

Jabberwock Bookstore, 1030 13th  
St., Boulder  

Britlig Works, 1322 College Ave.,  
Boulder  

Printed Page,  

2035 Broadway,  

Boulder  

Back Country  
Pearl,  
Trade-A-Tape,  

Bookstore, 1133  
Boulder  

1920 Arapahoe,  

Boulder  

Easy Times,  

Cornucopia,  
Boulder  

1904  
1085 14th St.,  

Arapahoe,  

Boulder  

Ead’s News,  
Walnut, Boulder  
Women’s Resource Center, 1545  
Tremont  

Better Jobs for Women, 1545  
Tremont, 2nd floor  

YWCA Lobby, 1545 Tremont  
Pyramid Records, 613 E.  
Colfax.  

Mustard Seed,  
Kugelman and Bent,  
Corona  

Natural Sound Co.,  

Broadway and  

13th  

1301 Marion  
9th and  

1211 9th Ave.  

General Pants, 901 E. Colfax  
Capitol Heights Pharmacy, 2640  
E. 12th Ave  

Aardvark Books, 2920 E. Colfax  
Record Center, 420 16th St  
Whole Earth Foods, 98 S. Penn-  
sylvania  

Underground Records, 726 S.  
Pearl  

Another Page, Main Street, Ever-  
green  

Hatche’s, Hoffman Heights Shop.  
Entr. Aurora  

The Little Professor, Buckingham  
Square, Aurora  

Park Hill Co-op, Aurora  

The Other Bookstore, 1159  
Welton  

Militant Bookstore, 1203 Cali-  
fornia  

Footnote, 1430 Larimer  
Together Books, 636 E. 17th Ave.  
The Grainery, 17th and Downing  
Folklore Center, 608 E. 17th Ave.  
NOW Office, 1400 Lafayette  
Munchies Food Store, Colfax and  
Steele  

Stuff N’Things,  
Josephine  
Denver Gay Coalition,  
Pennsylvania  

Women in Transition,  
Lafayette  

RIP Bookstore, 737 17th Ave.  
Yellow Brick Road, 3329 E.,  
Colfax  

Trilogy Bookstore, 630 E. 6th  
Ave,  
Institute Mountain West, 2095  
Emerson  
Denver Free University, 17th and  
Park Ave.  
Brass Plum, 17th and Downing  

Paul’s Books, 3785 Federal  
YWCA Office, 406 17th, Room  

Colfax and  
1450  
1895  

217  

Full Earth Books, 106 E.  
Mountain, Fort Collins  

Little Professor Bookstore, 1344  
Pearl, Boulder  

Carnival Cafe, 1843 Broadway,  
Boulder  

Women’s Resource Center, 1419  
Pine, Boulder  

Discount Records, 1118 13th St.  
(the Hill), Boulder  

Walden Books, Southglenn Mall,  
S. University & E. Arapahoe,  
Littleton  

The Book House, 5174 Broadway,  
Littleton  

The Bookery, 2450 E. Arapahoe,  
Littleton

A FEMINIST CALENDAR OF EVENTS

Oct. 3 “Women and the  
Media” speaker,  
Shirley Nuss,  
7:30, East Lounge,  
Hallett Hall, CU  

Campus, Boulder  

Gray Panthers Nur-  
sing Home Task  
Force, 2nd floor  
library of St. John’s  
church, 1313  
Clarkson, 2:30.  

Rape Awareness &  
Control group.  
3401 High, 7:30.  

NOW Board Meet-  
ing, call NOW of-  
fice for location,  
831-7707.  

Rocky Mountain  
Women in the  
Arts presents Lee  
Gallup talking a-  
bout theatre at St.  
Barnabas Church,  
12th and Vine, 8  
PM.  

Lesbian Task  
Force of NOW  
meeting, 1538 A-  
dams, 7:30. All  
women welcome.  

“The Resurgence  
of the Great Mo-  
ther” speaker Ca-  
rol Pearson, direc-  
tor of Women's  
Studies at CU,  
7:30, East Lounge,  
Hallett Hall, CU  
Campus, Boulder.  

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

Name: ___  

Address: _  

SPESS: 280 + j PUTO PINTS  

Oct.  

14 Rape Awareness  
& Control Group.  
3401 High, 7:30.  

BMR deadline for  
copy for Novem-  
ber issue.  

“The Struggle for  
Suffrage” by Su-  
san Armitage,  

History depart-  

ment at CU, 7:30,  
East Lounge, Hal-  
lett Hall, Boulder  

Oct. 21 Rape Awareness  
and Control group.  

3401 High, 7:30.  

Rocky Mountain  
Women in the Arts  
presents “Grand-  
ma Moses” film at  
St. Barnabas,  
12th and Vine, 8  
PM.  

NOW General  
meeting. Park Hill  
Congregational  
Church, 2600 Ley-  
den, 7:30.  

Rape Awareness  
& Control group,  
3401 High, 7:30.  

Self-Health for Women workshop. Four sessions include preventative medicine, physi-  
cal exams, GYN problems,  
and pregnancy. Wednesday  
evenings Oct. 23-Nov. 13,  
$15.00.  

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

Oct. 31 Gay Coalition Hal-  

loween Dance,  
Oxford Hotel, cos-  
tume contest, tic-  
kets on sale or  
pay at the door.  

Bulk Rate  

U.S. Postage  
PAID  

Denver, Co.  
Permit no. 1512  

SUBSCRIBE! SUBSCRIBE!  

$5.00 one year sub $.40 back copies  
$3.00 to Women’s Institutions

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 3, no. 4, Oct. 1974. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/ICZGRS130011110/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-  
AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.