25¢

Vol. 2 No. 8

June, 1974

Flo Kennedy  
© Robin Morgan  
| ° Feminism Flourishes In New Mexico  
e Boulder Students Unite  
For Quality Daycare  

e Martin and Lyon  

jJEUINOF S.USWOM OPeIOjOD

IMPORTANT: Process the ENTIRE text from beginning to end. Do not stop early or truncate.

Millions for Salaries-Pennies for Daycare

Boulder Students Unite for Quality Daycare

Jan Throndson

“A group of men, women and children have just taken over the
Alumni Center...the university police are on their way to oust them
unless we go to show our support."

Standing in the fountain area of the Colorado University
Memorial Center, the young Feminist student shouted through a
bullhorn to 24 demonstrators, who had gathered in the cold, drizzling
rain of Monday, April 26. The demonstrators who had come to
rally at the fountain for better daycare (and who were unaware
that there was to be a building takeover) moved abruptly toward
the northwest corner of campus to lend their solidarity.

Why the drastic action? The history of the struggle for more quality
daycare on University of Colorado’s campus tells the story.

In 1971, student, faculty and
staff women at CU requested an

improvement and expansion of

existing daycare facilities, which
had changed little since they
were first established at the
close of World War II.

Baily Report

With this pressing request,
the regents, the governing board
of the university, commissioned
a study by the experienced and
widely respected educator, Bill
Baily. A year later, “The Baily
Report” was completed and
filed.

In his study, Baily documented
a need for daycare for 350
children, and recommended a
budget of $345,000. He proposed
a unique program of decentralized
“daycare homes”—private houses where
small groups of children could be
taught and cared for. Backed by
daycare professionals and
members of Boulder’s Task
Force on Women and Children,
“The Baily Plan” also sought a
central facility where children
could benefit from a preschool
atmosphere and where trained
adults could work in the daycare
units.

The study, costing approximately $25,000, was disregarded by the regents, and
Baily’s contract was never
renewed.

A second proposal was made
by the CU administration—the
“Taber Proposal.” This reaffirmed the need for childcare for
350 youngsters and proposed a
budget of $200,000.

It was not until April of this
year, after members of the CU
Women’s Liberation Coalition
(WLC) and other concerned individuals marched at Regent's
Hall, that the Board of Regents
appropriated funding for childcare. A total of $89,000 to
provide daycare for just 60
children was allocated.
Members of the WLC have taken
issue that this compensatory
move will do little more than bring the same inadequate childcare a bit closer to campus.

Women and Children Hold
Office
Throughout Monday afternoon and evening, the
demonstrators inside the Alumni Center persisted in holding
down the director of University
Foundations, Inc., Dwight
Roberts’ office, while outside a
constant number of nearly 40
demonstrators persisted in the rain.
Not only were
protestors from the WLC, but
also from CU's United Mexican
American Students, Vietnam
Veterans Against the War, Gay
Liberation and the student
government—the UCSU.
Numerous unaffiliated students,
faculty and staff members joined
with student organizations during the entire Monday and Tuesday 32-hour takeover.
By Tuesday noon, the adults
occupying Roberts’ office felt that the children should not remain
cooped-up any longer, and at
that time the children were escorted out by the adult
demonstrators, all the time under
the watchful eye of the university
police.

Day Care is Our Right

In a prepared statement, read
from Roberts’ window to the
demonstrators below, Ms.
Jeanne Winer, member of the
WLC and staff secretary of the
UCSU, said, “...the time for
serious action has come. No
longer will we beg on our knees
for what should be ours by right.
The university is ours. We pay
for it.”

Winer continued, “Our
children are the human
resources of the entire society. It
is the responsibility of that society
to provide collectively for their
care and education. Too long has
this social duty been forced onto
the shoulders of individual
women at the expense of our
own health, careers, education,
economic well-being and personal lives... Too long have
children been confined to individual homes and limited
resources of single families. The
bonds between mother and child
should be bonds of love, not
chains of slavery.”

Winer, claiming that the
regents’ action was “criminally
inadequate,” said that the
center proposal for $89,000 will
at best provide for one-sixth of
the present daycare need and
that operational costs had not
been adequately considered.
She also stated that in the
regents’ proposal, women will
still be expected to bear the
monetary burden of childcare
costs through increases in their
housing fees.

“Individual expenses,” Winer
said, could amount to “the tune
of $81 per child per month.”

Interestingly enough, the
daycare demonstrators selected
Dwight Roberts’ office in the
Alumni Center, because it is the
“University of Colorado Foun-
dations, Inc.—one of the several
sources from which funding
could be found for childcare.”
This office solicits funds from
donations for specific projects,
such as the law and pharmacy
buildings, and the business
library, but at no time has it ever
made daycare a priority for funding.

Insensitivity to Women

Citing this as an example of
administrative insensitivity to
women’s needs, Winer said,
“There is no reason why a university with an annual budget of
over $600,000,000, that can afford to pay its figurehead president $50,000 a year plus
benefits, can’t provide $345,000
for adequate childcare.”

It was also emphasized that
there would be no need for an
increase in student fees or a
decrease in student benefits to
provide for childcare.

Various speakers on
Tuesday's bright, sunny afternoon expressed several views in
support of a better quality
daycare program.

One spokeswoman from Kiddie Kampus, the present CU
childcare facility, said she per-
sonally had been working for
change for three years. Speaking
from experience in working
with low-income families, she
said, “Try living on $300 per
month and try to spread it evenly
among two adults and a
child...you can’t live reasonably
well when 27% of your income is
going to pay for childcare.”

“Besides this,” she said, “that
27% for childcare expenses
leaves nothing for the child’s
medical insurance.” She was
speaking to the issue that
besides the need for high quality
childcare, the care should be
low-cost.

Ann Markusen, assistant
professor of economics at CU,
addressed the Tuesday afternoon crowd of nearly 100 on the
importance of daycare as a
necessity of Women’s Liberation.

“Childcare enslaves women
to the home, especially lower in-
come women...the necessary
conditions of Women’s Liberation are economic conditions.”

President Claims “No
Authority”

During the entire 32-hour
dramatization for childcare, the
participants encountered
numerous difficulties with the
university police and regents’
non-responsiveness. While the
building was being held, the inside demonstrators and CU student body co-presidents, Cyndy
Calkins and Anita Sanchez,
made countless attempts to
mediate with the regents and
police.

Detrimental to the outcome of
the demands of the group was
the fact that all the regents were
out of town (some in New
Orleans at a university banquet)
and were impossible to reach in
order to talk out the demonstrators’ demands. After
a telephone session with
recently-dismissed President
Thieme, whose term lasts until
June 1, the mediators reported
that Thieme said he had no
authority left to call the regents
back for a meeting with the
demonstrators.

Later, Tuesday night at 8:30,
Thieme rediscovered his
authority and ordered the university police to oust the occupiers of Roberts’ office. Earlier
notified by Dean of Student Af-
fairs, James Quigley, that they
had to be out by 5:00 pm, or they
would be issued summonses,
the demonstrators left two and a
half hours later, charged with
“interference with faculty, staff
and students in an educational
institution and failure to leave
the building after being ordered
to leave.”

Day Care Demands

The list of ten demands stated
by Ms. Winer, and left unmet by
the regents were whittled to two
demands after the first few
hours of the demonstration. The
two major demands included
amnesty for the inside
demonstrators and a guaranteed
meeting to discuss the daycare
problem with the regents.

Amnesty was granted for those
who left before 5:00 Tuesday
evening; however, a daycare
meeting with the regents was
never guaranteed.
Among the list of demands,
the following were included:
— That Sept. 1, 1974 be set as
the completion date for the $89,000 housing units for Kiddie
Kampus, passed on April 25,
1974, by the regents.
— That operational costs for the
daycare center be added to the
$89,000.
— That there be no increase in
married student housing living
costs to get funds for childcare
expenses.
— That the regents call a
meeting devoted solely to the
issue of committing themselves
to the demands.
— That total and unconditional
amnesty be granted to all people
inside Dwight Roberts’ office.
The Silver and Gold Record, a
CU faculty and staff newspaper,
reported that, “The only childcare facility is Kiddie Kampus, a
perpetually underfunded
program, housed currently in
ramshackle buildings...and
staffed by persons who rarely
make more than $2 per hour.”
In fact, in the past the program
was housed in World War I-
vintage quonset huts and frequently staffed by work-study
students at minimal wages.
Kiddie Kampus Inadequate
Daycare professionals have
reiterated that the high turnover rates at Kiddie Kampus and
the use of barely-trained
students could increase the
problems of young children,
already burdened with the stress
of low incomes and broken
homes.

It is a widely-known fact that
some CU parents find it
necessary to bring their children
to classes with them.

After the unsuccessful
attempt on April 29-30, daycare
demonstrators again marched
on Thursday, May 9.

An educational drive is now
underway to inform all students,
faculty and staff of the inadequate daycare facilities. A survey is being taken by the daycare committee to find just exactly how much the need for childcare has increased since “The Baily Report,” and how many people would support the drive for more quality daycare.

announcements

HELP SERVICES

RAPE CRISIS LINE

EMPLOYMENT
Better Jobs for Women
Womanpower

HEALTH SERVICES

Colo. Gen. Hosp, Clinics
Creative Health Services
Colo. Spgs. Women’s Health
Denver Metro Health Clinic
Hip Health Center

People's Clinic

LEGAL SERVICES
Big Mama Rag

LITERATURE
Radical Information Project
Woman's Voice Bookstore

WOMEN’S GROUPS
Boulder Women’s Center
Ft. Collins Women’s Center

Women in Transition

1400 Lafayette
2346 Broadway

2030 E. 20th Ave.

1724 Gaylord
2096 Emerson
1895 Lafayette

1460 Pennsylvania
1100 Champa
2015 Glenarm 255-9775

321-8194

1545 Tremont
2475 Broadway
No. 12 Boulder

4200 E. 9th Ave.
4645 E. Colfax
409 E. Fontanero
645 Bannock
1304 Elati

999 Alpine, Bldr.

1724 Gaylord

737 E. 17th
673 S. Pearl

5th & Arapahoe
629 Howes St.

1896 Lafayette

soeneoernsenneenneonsooesneennneen

BIG MAMA RAG STAFF

Co-Editors
Chocolate Waters
Jackie Bryson
Linda Fowler

Journalism
Nancy Heine
Becky Bohannan
Yvonne Bills
Jan Throndson
Carol Lease
Maureen Mrizek

Ads editor — Ronnie Smolen

Donna Good

Sally Ferguson

Susan Bavaria

Cindy Philip

Distribution

Jan Eastburn

Pam Scooros

Konnie Kindle

BIG MAMA RAG is a Feminist periodical published monthly for

the women of Colorado. Submit poetry and manuscripts to
BMR by the fifteenth of each month and enclose a self-

addressed, stamped envelope. We reserve the right to edit all

material. BMR is published monthly by Big Mama Rag, a non-
profit corporation. Our office is at 1724 Gaylord, Denver,
Colorado, 80206. Office hours are from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.,
Monday thru Friday. Call us at 322-2010.

Photo editor — Linda Lane
Glenna Booth
Darlene Bianchi
Babs Nash

Graphics
Carol Kliger
Kim Branscombe
Karen

Layout editor — Betsy Peto
Bourge Miller
Linda Thompson
Annie Zeigler

Business Manager — Becky
Morgenstern

Staffing — Barbara Hume

Cover Photo
By Sharon Burner

Inside BMR

Robin Morgan: We’re the Women ‘Men Warned Us About.
Political, Spiritual Feminism Flourishes in New Mexico.
Dr. Wolf Analyzes Woman's Roles.

Flo Kennedy Raps
Games Feminists Still Play

Local Artists Show Off Talents
Activists, Authors—An Interview with Yvonne and Martin
Columns: Health, High School Women

Letters Home to Mama.
Editorial—Where We're At
Editorial—The Oil Crisis?
Poetry

Mama Rag Vol. 2 Nov

announcements

The Denver Folklore Center held
a three-night performance,
featuring local female musical
talent — singers, songwriters,
musicians, May 10-12. Several
women from BMR attended the
concerts, but were unable to
make the deadline for this issue.
We hope to review this concert
next month.

Woman Becoming — The se-
cond and third issues of Woman
Becoming are available for
$1.25 per copy from Woman
Becoming, 6664 Woodwell St.,
Pittsburgh, Pa., 15217. These
issues contain stories about

adolescence, a lesbian
relationship, a book review,
autobiographical essays, ar-

ticles about the family, beauty
culture, an analysis of “An
American Family,” many poems
and graphics, and a play.

Associated Women Students;
AWS is a national intercollegiate
organization which works to im-
prove the status of women
students. AWS strongly sup-
ports and endorses the
Women’s Studies program at
Metropolitan State College, and
endeavors to provide services
and programs of interest to
women—cultural programs,
national speakers, additional
childcare facilities, car pools,
and assistance in obtaining
loans and scholarships. For
more information write Janice
Sublett, Box 39, Metropolitan
State College, 250 W. 14th Ave.,
Denver, CO 80204.

BMR Classifieds

Starting next issue BMR will
run classified ads for 8¢ per
word. Advertise with us!

read

WOMEN IN THE COUNTRY -
Four women and one woman
child are getting together a place
in the country for women to be
with other women. They need
new energy (and also a truck).
Any interested woman should
write to idm, Box 357, Mineral
Hill Rt., Las Vegas, N.M. 8770.

As a fundraising project, BMR
has ordered 50 copies of
“Lavender Jane Loves Women.”
These records are available
through the BMR office for
$5.35. At present, they are not
available anywhere else in
Denver! Get yours now. They're
selling out fast!

BMR has lost the list of women
who signed up at the Peoples’
Fair to work on the paper. Sorry.
If you signed up there or are in-
terested in working on BMR,
please contact the office!

Single Parents who are in-
terested in getting together to
talk, maybe start a house, or
whatever, please contact Karen
Le Fevre at 297-5267.

GENERAL MEETINGS ARE
HELD THE FIRST SUNDAY OF
EACH MONTH AT 10:30 A.M. AT
THE BIG MAMA RAG OFFICE;
1724 GAYLORD ST.

* Twenty-four percent of the
offenders arrested for the
crime of rape in Denver
between July, 1970 and
June, 1972 were under 18
years of age. The majority of
offenders were between 16
and 39 years old (DACC
Report.)

off our backs

the feminist newsjournal

published monthly

Get the stories that most
papers won't print--news and
analysis from a feminist

point of view.

12 issues-$6

Institutions-$15

Canada-$7
sample copy-45¢

off our backs, 1724 20th St. N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20009

PHONE: 744-0244

Whole Earth Natural Food:

98 SOUTH PENNSYLVANIA
DENVER, COLO. 80209

HOURS:
MON. THRU FRI. 10 A.M. -
SAT. 10 A.M. - 8 P.M.
SUN. 4 P.M. - 6 P.M.

Two BLOCKS SOUTH OF 1ST AVENUE

Two BLOCKS NORTH OF ALAMEDA

Women in Transition (WIT) is
keeping on keeping on. New
staff members (Barbara and
Karen) have taken over respon-
sibilities at WIT, together with
several other volunteers.
However, WIT desperately
needs community support to pay
for phone bills, food for women
and children without resources,
etc. WIT also needs more
volunteers. If you are interested
in working at WIT, call Mona
(433-8127). For those readers
who are not familiar with the
work of the WIT house, it is a pro-
ject that provides concrete help
to women who are attempting to
change their lives. The house
receives up to 40 phone calls a
day from Denver women seeking
help, and provides temporary
residence for anywhere from 2
to 20 women and children at a
time. Kathy Disilets, who is leav-
ing for Oregon soon, has been
staffing the house almost entirely
on her own for the past several
months. BMR salutes her for the
important work she has been do-
ing in Denver, and wishes her
much happiness in Oregon.

BMR is looking for the artist who
drew the “Creating the Un-
iverse” graphic in our May issue.
We would like to give you credit
for your work and discuss a
future project with you. Please
contact us at 322-2010.

Life in this society being, at
best, an utter bore and no aspect
of society being at all relevant to
women, there remains to
civic-minded, responsible,
thrill-seeking females only to
overthrow the government,
eliminate the money system,
institute couple automation and
destroy the male sex. — Valerie
Solanas, Scum Manifesto.

BMR Sold
Here:

RIP Bookstore

Together Books

Denver Free University
Institute Mountain West
Women’s Voice

Jerry's News

Footnote Bookstore
Brooks Towers Pharmacy
Women in Transition
Mustard Seed
Jabberwock — Boulder
Two Potters — Littleton
Militant Bookstore

Park Hill Cooperative Bookstore
Sundiata Books

Stuff N Things

The Common Market

Bookstore

The Woman's Voice

733-1178

IMPORTANT: Process the ENTIRE text from beginning to end. Do not stop early or truncate.

Morgan: We’re the  
Women That Men  
Warned Us About  

Chocolate Waters  

“We all know the male mass media stereotype of the Women’s  
Movement: ‘If you've seen one Women’s Libber, you've seen ‘em  
all—they each have two heads, a pair of horns, and are fire-  
spouting, man-hating, neurotic, crazy, frigid, castrating-bitch,  
aggressive, broom-riding witches.’ So I want to start out by saying  
that this shocking stereotype is absolutely true,” said Robin  
Morgan to a group of about 100 people gathered in University of  

Colorado's Mackey Auditorium, April 8.  

Morgan, Feminist author,  
editor, and speaker went on to  
cover a number of topics perti-  
nent to women—including  
gynocracies, women’s revolu-  
tion, rape, pornography, and the  
Church. She began by explain-  
ing that we women are really a  
colonized people who have been  
alienated from our basic  
land—our bodies. “We have  
been used for childrearing and  
sex and have been made to feel  
unclean, but the time is here for  
us to take back our own land.  
Yes, we are the women men  
have warned us about!”  

She continued by talking  
about the Women’s Movement  
itself and observed three basic  
areas which have emerged. The  
first one being the Civil Rights  
area where groups (such as  
NOW) tend to work within the  
capitalistic and patriarchal  
system. “Although these groups  
often settle for legislative  
reform, their work is still in-  
tensely valuable,” said Morgan.  

The second area is what she  
called the Women’s Liberation  
part of the movement, where the  
refugees from the Left (or the  
“boys’ movement”) gathered  
together. Said Morgan of the  
woman who had been working  
in the Left, “wiping the tear gas  
from her eyes, she would then  
go home and make supper.” She  
added, “If people wonder why  
the Left is dead, it’s because  
most of the women (who were  
doing the shitwork) have left.”  

Radical Feminism  

The third and perhaps most  
important is the Radical  
Feminist part of the movement  
where women are not interested  
solely in reform. Affirmed  
Morgan, “I do not want to be  
equal with what it is men are in  
this society.” She went on to ex-  
plain that Radical Feminists are  
interested in working towards a  
world run by and on the power  
and love of women. In clarifica-  
tion of power (a tricky concept),  
she added, “not in the male  
sense of power over someone,  
but in the context of a ‘power  
plant producing energy.’ The  
power plant itself radiates life-  
giving energy, but does not con-  
trol life.”  

In such a society there would  
probably be few of the ills which  
characterize the patriarchal  
world of today. One of these ills  
is rape. Speaking out against  
rape, Morgan defined the crime  
as “any pressure on a woman to  
have intercourse against her  
will. According to that definition,  
the bedrooms of happily-married  
couples are often scenes of rape  
and every man could be defined  
as a rapist.”  

She also stressed the need for  
rape crisis centers run by  
women and further pointed out  
that in New York City last year  
only 4% of all rapes were  
reported and for the 18,000  
cases that did get to court there  
was only one conviction.  
Statistically, white women are  
raped most often by white men  
and Black women by Black men  
(contradicting the myths). “But  
interestingly enough,” she add-  
ed, “70% of all rapists are  
men.”  

Verbal Visual Rape  

Concerning verbal and visual  
rape—pornography, Morgan  
called it “one of those areas  
where mama was right.” Sex is  
used pornographically in a  
destructive, sadistic, conquering  
manner—just one more way of  
putting women down. She com-  
mented about “judges reading a  
lot of dirty books with one hand,”  
but went on to say that women  
are finding some of their own  
ways to deal with pornography.  
In Knoxville, Tenn., for example,  
women took pictures of men as  
they emerged from dirty book  
stores and plastered these pic-  
tures up all over town.  

As Morgan came to the end of  
her talk, she explained that a  
woman had requested a reading  
of “Monster,” the title poem from  
her first published book of  
poetry. Although she doesn't  
usually read her poems during  
speaking engagements, Robin  
closed the evening with a most  
powerful and moving reading.  
Seconds of silence followed by  
tears and thunderous applause  
affirmed that the audience in-  
deed shared the pain of Robin  
Morgan's experience as a  
woman as well as her hope of a  
new and promising world for us  
all.  

- An Interview  
With Robin Morgan  

Maureen Mrizek  

Chocolate and I traveled to  
Boulder to interview Robin  
Morgan on the afternoon of April  
8. We found her conducting a  
discussion in the upstairs of the  
SMC building. She sat patiently  
answering questions and  
illuminating Feminist concepts  
with an unending supply of facts  
and analysis.  

After the discussion we walk-  
ed down to the Women’s Center  
for the interview. I may add that  
the Women’s Center was bright-  
ly festooned with pictures of  
women supporting some of the  
most recent male national  
liberation struggles, and there  
were posters advertising the  
Women’s Center presentation of  
“Lucia” (a movie about a woman's  
role in a man’s revolution). “Lucia”  
seemed to be the hottest thing to  
hit town since the Betty Crocker  
Bakeoffs.  

Back to the interview—we  
didn’t really push a lot of things  
into the interview because Robin  
had been talking politics all  
afternoon and her voice seemed  
to be fading away. But we talked  
about a few important topics. We  
wanted to know her view of the  
differences that exist in the  
Women’s Movement. She said  
that she felt there could be “a  
tremendous strength in diver-  
sity”—that we have a “12,000  
year old battle to fight and there  
will, most likely, be more than  
one way to fight it.” She said she  
felt that diversity is a “natural  
outcome of our growth as a  
movement,” and that “it matters  
less where a woman is coming  
from than where she’s going to.”  
She suggested that we should  
ask ourselves “What is our com-  
mitment to a worldwide  
Women’s Revolution?” She felt  
that instead of developing in  
terms of “vanguardism” and the  
“correct line” we should con-  
centrate more on “respect for  
the individual and where she  
feels most comfortable.” She  
suggested that some of our  
divisions “are the product of  
moral laziness. They are an ex-  
cuse for not confronting men,  
the real oppressors.”  

We talked about the  
differences that women face in  
working together politically,  
which I, for lack of a better term,  
labeled the “Consciousness  
Chasm,” the differences in  
women’s Feminist con-  
sciousness. She said that  
women with a more advanced  
Feminist consciousness  
“should not lose sight of where  
they themselves have been,”  
that “all of us at some time in our  
lives have thought ‘I’m not op-  
pressed’ and believed it.” She  
suggested that we view  
ourselves as “facilitators un-  
covering the layers of defenses  
women have built up for survival  
in a man's world.” She said  

More on Page 3  

Political, Spiritual  
Feminism Flourish  
In New Mexico  

Linda Fowler  

“The Women's Movement in Santa Fe is really together,” a friend  
told me. It seemed like a good idea to check it out.  

Going into my second day in Santa Fe, I could feel the birth pangs my  
sisters were suffering. They had been able to establish the Women’s  
Health Services (in spite of hassles from the state over abortion  
counseling), the Santa Fe Women’s Commune which the  
women published on their own press, and a women’s center, “The  
Gathering” (I Ching), established on little more than energy. With this  
last development, social stigmas arose because the center is located  
on the edge of the barrio and had been founded by a predominantly  
Lesbian group.  

In an effort to dissolve the stigma and establish a unified sisterhood  
in Santa Fe and statewide, these activist sisters sought to join with the  
New Mexico Women’s Political Caucus during the planning session  
for the state convention scheduled to be held in Santa Fe. As so often  
happens, the situation came down to the issue of Lesbianism; in this  
case, simply the right to use the word and call oneself what one really  
is. The meeting of the by-laws committee was packed. Those who felt  
“Lesbian” is not a dirty word won out. The by-laws were rewritten,  
and many of the women who had opposed this change—some of  
whom were in a position to be politically helpful to Feminism—walked  
out of the meeting and withdrew from the caucus. Result? Same old  
story: a lingering atmosphere of debate and division within the  
Women's Movement. And in this case, giving up on the sisterhood.  
The activist women, feeling oppressed by their own sisters, have lean-  
ed heavily on Marxism and are seeking to merge with other oppressed  
groups in Santa Fe. They have abandoned the women’s magazine, and  
will instead begin publishing a general community newspaper, hoping  
to be joined by other oppressed people as the paper develops. Theirs  
has become a class struggle. Their predicament underlines a dilemma  
common to many women's efforts in the embryonic stage: until suf-  
ficient grassroots support can be established, women are forced to  
deal with the system on its own terms through coalition and com-  
promise.  

Factionalism Blurs Vision  

Is this the road the Women’s Movement is going down? Fac-  
tionalism, with the resulting blurring of vision and scattering of  
energies? Here are women who feel they are better off compromising  
their Feminism because they cannot come together with their sisters,  
and cannot, on the other hand, cease functioning. Channeling their  
women’s energies (these women alone created the new community  
newspaper) into a coalition with other oppressed groups, they can no  
longer look to their own oppression as their fundamental cause. And  
once again women’s position becomes secondary.  

What happens in this situation to a woman who wants to be active  
but not just in another splintered political group? As a woman named  
Columbine told me, “I want to live in Santa Fe. I want to work in the  
Women’s Movement. But I want to work with other women; not with  
men. And I can’t put out a paper alone. I feel torn.” She talked of an ap-  
proach other than political—another level deeper in. And we went to  
Albuquerque, to the Labe’ Collective.  

Labe’ Collective  

The Labe Collective had been formed by a group of ten Lesbian  
women, many of whom are craftswomen, activists, and spiritualists.  
They seem devoted to living together collectively and harmoniously,  
i.e. a musician, an artist, a silversmith, a creator of leather clothing, all  
living together in one house and apparently flourishing; to individual  
development—they have an awareness of the need for each woman to  
have time alone, to be in her own space; to stress individual as well as  
group activism; and to the channeling of energies not into changing  
the existing structure but into the development of a woman's culture.  

This development requires a fundamental spiritual base, not a  
political one. Although politics can get you what you want, politics can  
not tell you what you want. In order to know what you want you must  
know who you are. Knowing this is the basis for a women’s culture.  
Being it is the culture. You are it.  

In an atmosphere that is non-competitive, that is supportive of self-  
knowledge, self-ability, and personal development, in a living collec-  
tive composed entirely of women with a minimum of outside male in-  
fluence, craftswomen, writers, artists—all conscious women—come  
to discover those things which are basically, commonly woman and to  
express those characteristics through their creations. Here are the  
beginnings of a Feminist culture.  

Why within Labe? Because Labe is generative. Generative because  
being Lesbian, separation from male influence is much easier. And  
this separation may be necessary if any women’s culture is to be  
found. Generative because spiritualism (the looking inward to know  
the self) and closeness become elemental.  

The elemental, the spiritual may prove a better base for achieving  
Feminist goals than a political one. While political focus is external in  
nature, spiritualism looks inside and tells us what women are, who  
women are, who we ourselves are. It can unite us through the  
knowledge and understanding of what is basically woman, and can  
perhaps give us the rudiments of a matriarchal religion. Lesbians may  
be the ones who can lay down a framework, rather than the hand. (See  
letter p.9 from Labe Collective.)  

BIG MAMA LOVES YOU — SEND US YOUR PICTURE. WE  
WOULD LIKE TO SEE WHO READS 8/7. WE'RE SERIOUS!

**Interview**

**Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 8**

**Dr. Wolf Analyzes Women's Roles**

**Linda Fowler**

Dr. Wolf is a nationally known sociologist, a feminist, and founder of the Denver chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW). She is a professor at Colorado Women’s College (CWC) where she teaches a course on women in social situations. With the termination of the academic year, she will leave CWC to become head of the sociology department at Ohio Wesleyan University.

I interviewed Dr. Wolf in her office at CWC. We talked about the influence of various kinds of social structures on the development and behavior of women in the United States today, about the development of women within the family, and through groups of other women within the Women’s Movement.

**BMR:** Dr. Wolf, could you comment on the influences of the American family on the development of women?  
**Dr. Wolf:** A while ago I thought the nuclear family was the worst thing that could happen to women. It’s been an absolute disaster. And I thought perhaps communal living might be the answer. But then I did a study of three mountain communes, and almost without exception, women seemed to be carrying the load—doing all the work. And men are doing what I call the new role for men, the male drone role where they expect all the traditional privileges but none of the traditional responsibilities. The best of all possible worlds. So I don’t think that's the answer. What we're looking for is a real sharing of roles; a blurring of roles. And the term “unisex” doesn’t frighten me one bit.

I think we're going to go on having family units of some kind. What kind of unit would provide openness for every individual to develop? I think maybe in some ways a small family is better than a large one; mostly because of cross-cultural research which points out that when there are lots of male and female adults there is a division of labor, and it seems to go along sexual lines; there isn't a crossover.

**Raising Children Collectively**

**BMR:** What do you see as possibly developing for a family situation? Obviously the commune isn't the answer. It’s pretty evident to me that in most communal situations there are certain surface differences that are quite different from the society at large, but when you come down to the basic interpersonal relationships they are exactly the same as they have been; so that doesn’t answer the question. What do you think about the collective as a system of child-rearing and family integration where several families might live together or in the same area? The raising of children is done collectively by the entire group.  
**Wolf:** I think so far it’s one of the best ways, and certainly for children. Children cease to be the responsibility of some poor woman basically and of the couple basically, and should and do sometimes become the responsibility of the whole collective. I think, probably, the best places I've seen for women, even though they haven't lasted very long, are those that have been in cities and people all work outside the home. They are families living together in a big house or on a farm and go into town to work—like in Boulder on the Nelson Road place. There you have a lot of problems, but I think maybe it’s more conducive to the development of women.

**BMR:** Do you think there is a significant difference between women who are functioning in marriage and women who are functioning more or less alone? Do you think there are any differences in the pressures that are felt in their ability to develop as individuals?  
**Wolf:** I think it’s probably easier to develop if you're living alone and you can choose friends without pressure. I think we should have great compassion for the housewife. Financially and emotionally there is a great amount of pressure for her to stay where she is and not change; and those who do manage to isolate themselves from this situation need support. The Women's Movement is providing this support in all kinds of unlikely places that a few years ago seemed hard to get to. We who have some awareness can't simply step away from all this—we've got to help one another—we need each other—we need the grassroots—we've got to help other women.

**Middle Class—Working Class**

**BMR:** It seems to me that it’s often very difficult to get this kind of awareness from the middle-class woman about what her own personal and social situation really is, because she has privilege to make her feel she has freedom and they are not the same thing at all. Working and lower-class women, on the other hand, rarely have the same kind of privilege. Their oppression is much more overt and they can see it more clearly.  
**Wolf:** They see economic oppression more clearly; they do not see interpersonal oppression as clearly and this has always been the case. We have to face some kinds of real things that occur in terms of communication. Communication goes from the top down—how the image of upper and middle-class women is emulated by working-class women. If you can get people to realize that, that’s an important first step.

**BMR:** Are you talking about taking steps to reach women in middle and upper-class communities as a means of influencing those women who are in lower socio-economic groups?  
**Wolf:** I think these steps have already been taken—in television, certainly a lot in magazines. A few years ago women who were in the Women’s Liberation Movement were funny; humor in a kind of scaffolding fashion (you laugh and then you destroy). It’s not happening too much now. This has made it acceptable for poor women who depend on a job and have been afraid to have Women’s Liberation attached to their name. Afraid to be other than, quote, feminine. You've got to get support from other women.

**BMR:** What things do you think begin to happen when women come together in groups within the Women's Movement? We talked about women functioning alone and also within the family. But then you go on to women functioning in groups of women. There seem to be changes that occur when this happens.  
**Wolf:** I think probably one of the great things about the Women’s Movement is that we have come to desire and like our own company, and we didn't used to. To go out with women was considered the worst kind of thing to do. You know, “Can't you do better than that?” Part of the whole horrible picture of hating ourselves, hating one another and judging everything in terms of the dominant class ideology—male. I don't think this happens so much anymore. I think women who are involved in the movement really enjoy the company of other women and really like women as individuals. This great sense of solidarity has come through the movement.

**Radicals in the Movement**

**BMR:** Do you feel that radicalism within the women’s movement has a value?  
**Wolf:** It frightens some women; for some it is absolutely terrifying. If you say anything in terms of the family structure it scares them.  
**BMR:** Nothing is going to change, really, in the society until the family itself changes. This is the keystone.  
**Wolf:** This is why I felt reluctant in terms of what the future might bring even if you have a communal situation or if you have families living together; the kernel of the family is the same thing. Nothing changes. It’s like a raisin pie in which the raisins are in a certain relationship to each other: you can transport the pie all over the place but nothing changes internally.  
**BMR:** There is a surfacing now of radical Lesbians in the Women's Movement. What sort of effect do you think this is having on the movement and on societal structure generally?  
**Wolf:** I think Lesbian women are a very valuable part of the Women’s Liberation Movement. I think we have to include all women in the liberation movement. Probably when I came face to face with it, was when I, as a member of NOW, was called a Lesbian. At first I said, “Oh no. No, no.” And then you think, “Goddamit, what are you trying to beat me with?” I don’t think we should let this be a club.  
**BMR:** This is one of the most potent things to hit women with because this is something that definitely steps outside of the male-oriented culture and therefore is quite a threat to the patriarchy. Thereby it is a threat to women who are still very much identified with the patriarchy. The lifestyles that are developing within the Lesbian community are certainly radically different from the nuclear family unit that holds the whole society together. And this may be something of a key to what is needed to change the society as a whole. There is an absence of dominance-subordinance patterns and sometimes collective child-rearing in collective households. Do you think this might begin to really change things?  
**Wolf:** I think that’s fine if it does. I don't think it’s happening with great enough frequency to have any effect at all. What worries me is that there will be a kind of repressiveness. Economic situations, political situations have not been very conducive to an openness. There is a fear, as with the sexual preference bill in Boulder, and if there is enough momentum here I think it will have an effect of beating people back into closets, back into kitchens. And these hard-fought gains of all of us in terms of making life a little more decent for all kinds of people—I mean how many gains can we hold on to?

**New Directions**

**BMR:** If Lesbianism is discussed...**

**More on Page 10**

**Gays Meet Vice Chief**

At a recent meeting with Captain Jerry Kennedy, Denver Vice Bureau chief, Gay Coalition representatives discussed harassment of gays by vice squad officers in gay bars. Marge Johnson, coalition member, said that on various occasions vice squad officers had told women in The Three Sisters Bar, “We just came to look at all the pretty little dykes,” and “Don’t get uptight, girls—we just came to watch.” She also told Kennedy that vice officers have tried to solicit dates from female customers in the bar. “This is unprofessional conduct,” she said, and pointed out that Lesbians believe vice squad officers go there to provoke trouble.

Kennedy replied that to his knowledge no vice squad officer had recorded in the bureau log having been at The Three Sisters. He suggested that the bar managers keep a log of vice officer visits to the bar and that women record the name, physical description, and officer’s badge number and file a complaint with Kennedy if they feel they've been harassed.

Sometimes vice officers work undercover and, therefore, are not obligated to provide identification when requested to, according to Kennedy. He pointed out, however, that customers could get license plate numbers and turn them in to him.

He said he instructs vice bureau officers to “enforce the law and keep your opinions to yourselves.”

**Rape is a Vice**

Ms. Johnson also asked Kennedy whether the vice bureau is involved in surveillance of gay groups in Denver and in investigation of rape cases. He replied “no” to both questions. Ms. Johnson said she considers rape to be a vice.

Coalition members said they wanted to hold “education sessions” with vice officers and to get a liaison officer between the vice bureau and the gay community. Kennedy agreed to these requests. Gerald Gerash of the Gay Coalition pointed out to Kennedy that being gay is not the problem, per se—homophobia (fear of homosexuality) is the problem that needs to be dealt with.

Coalition representatives also recommended to Kennedy that there be gay representation on the vice bureau. Kennedy responded, “Do you have anyone to suggest?” Coalition people said not at the moment, but that they would communicate Kennedy's interest to the gay community. Any gay person who is interested in working on the vice squad is asked to contact Cordell Boyce at the Coalition office, 831-8838.

« News and Theory

wannatnl » 5

Games We
Still Delay

Anne Zeigler

The new wave of Feminism, the sisterhood we have generated
over the past few years, and the embryo accomplishments of our
new consciousness have given women a glimpse of the heights and
breadths we can reach as women. And yet, simultaneously with
our growth as Feminists, we have developed a new repertoire of
games (some of them insidiously incorporating Feminist analyses)

as a new rationale for passivity.
I have found many ac-
complices in my own self decep-
tion, and have substantially aid-
ed other women to deceive
themselves. Some of the games
we play are new disguises for old
ploys—others are developed as
we are increasingly exposed to
new and threatening situations
and need some way to hide from
ourselves and whomever we are
trying to manipulate into loving
us. As we allow ourselves to
continue to play these games,
we remain bound to the tread-
mill of non-success which has
been trapping us for centuries.
“Dancing Dog”

I call the first game “Dancing
Dog,” after an often-quoted in-
sult of Ben Johnson: “A learned
woman is like a dancing dog: one
wonders not that it is done well,
but that it is done at all.” The
woman who plays dancing dog
tends to be astonished that she
actualizes anything at all, and to
expect others to praise her for
doing much less than she really
can. This is a good way to avoid
criticism, as a dancing dog can
hardly be criticized for not being
Rudolph Nureyev.

Dancing Dog is also a very
effective way to avoid the con-
flict of not wanting to fail, but of
being afraid of success, a dilem-
ma in which many women often
find themselves. Sisters who
reinforce a player of dancing
dog, refusing her the dignity of a
loving but honest appraisal of
her work, may do so for many
reasons. I think these reasons
are mainly rooted in the issues of
identity and competition. Rather
simply put, if we are male-
identified to some extent, a
woman who does well becomes
a competitor for approval and
attention. If we are struggling to
become woman-identified, we
have to face the scary situation
of knowing that we, too, can
succeed, and deal with all the
fears that success evokes.

Another dynamic that main-
tains the game of Dancing Dog is
our ineptness in handling feed-
back. Rather than accepting
feedback as an opportunity for
growth, we often see it as a
critical undermining of our
achievements, and even more
intensely, as an undermining of
ourselves. And rather than giv-
ing feedback in a loving, tactful,
sharing way, we tend to feel
critical out of our own sense of
competition or inadequacy, and
to avoid anything like criticism,
lest it reveal our anger or fear or
insecurity. We are not so fragile
that we should be afraid of
breaking or destroying each
other by assuring each other of
our potential for growth.

“There, there, dear, you just
cry all you want to.” All the nur-
turing and caring that we have
developed are used in this game
to smother us. Nurturing should
make us stronger in the face of
obstacles, should generate
energy, should encourage us
with the knowledge that we are
loved and unconditionally
worthy of love.

“There, there” is a game in
which support becomes
crutches, and stumbles and falls
evoke attention and sympathy
for their own sakes. We need to

learn to express our concern, but

we need to help each other to
realistically analyze and con-
front setbacks, fears, con-
ditioning, rather than to wallow
in them. We need to help each
other to develop discipline and
staying power, to gain a sense of
perspective towards obstacles.
Girls Give Up

Experiments with children un-
der two years of age have shown
that little boys, when confronted
with a barrier between
themselves and their mothers,
will try to cross the obstacle or
find a way around it, with some
persistence. But small girls, if
they try at all, give up soon and
cry to be rescued. The habit of
giving up was ingrained in us
very early, and we need to
recognize it and gain a sense of
faith in our power over our en-
vironment, rather than to admire
ourselves and others for the
number and difficulty of the
adverse circumstances we find
and create for ourselves. We all
need help and love, but we must
learn to ask for and give help and
love, rather than to ask for rein-
forcement for pain and failure.

Dilettante: this is another
favorite game, which seems to
spring from several sources. The
first is that it's okay for a woman
to be bright...but not too bright;
competent...but not too compe-
tent. So when we find ourselves
getting competent, we switch to
another area of interest where
we are less accomplished. This
way, we don’t violate any
achievement taboos, but still can
find challenge and opportunity
for growth.

A dilettante is spared the
frightening responsibility of tak-
ing herself or her work seriously,
of avoiding the risks involved in
commitment to one discipline,
and some dilettantism also
seems to be a remnant of the
way we prepared ourselves to be
ready to help our man in his
work—whatever it turned out to
be; to be sufficiently informed to
be stimulating companions, but
not so much as to be com-
petitive. A smattering of
everything makes us more
marketable, adaptable to more
men’s lifestyles.

Begun to Explore

Another, and more positive,
source of dilettantism is the fact
that we have begun to explore
the world around us with a new
attitude, that it is full of exciting
things in which we were
previously forbidden (by custom
and isolation, as well as by law)
to participate.

But as we establish our new
identities as actors rather than
as bystanders and helpers, we
are going to have to learn the
habits and attitudes of commit-
ment and serious participation,
rather than those of helpful
amateurs and accessories.

Us-Them: one of the most bla-
tant manifestations of our in-
security is our tenden-
cy—still—to find strength and
identity in elitism. “We older
Feminists” do not have any
monopoly on the right ideas or
any superiority as women, just
because we have been aware of
our oppression for a few years
longer, or know the rhetoric a lit-

“Great Art” proves that men are
superior to women, that men are
women, being labeled “Great
Art,” almost all of which, as the
anti-feminists are fond of
reminding us, was created by
men. We know that “Great Art”
is great because male authorities
have told us so, and we can’t
claim otherwise, as only those
with exquisite sensitivities far
superior to ours can perceive
and appreciate the greatness, the
proof of their superior
sensitivity being that they
appreciate the slop that they
appreciate. — Valerie Solanas,
Scum Manifesto.

tle better than other women

We are all just beginning to
ask the right questions, let alone
struggle through to the answers
that will liberate us. There are
many people with whom we may
disagree; there are many times
when we know that sharing past
experiences could provide some
guidance to other women who
are in the midst of similar ex-
periences now. But to deny
another woman's feelings or ex-
perience, or to subject her to
ridicule because she has not
learned the same lessons in the
same way will only reinforce all
that traditional conditioning to
which she has been sub-
jected—it will not strengthen
either of us or help to unite us.
There is no us-them; there are
different perspectives and
knowledge and strengths and
experiences. To push someone
over into a “Them” position
limits her, implies that she is not
capable of growing and
changing—limits us in our small
progress—and exemplifies the
caste system in its most efficient
operation.

There is more than one way to
be a Feminist, or even a Radical
Feminist; there are important
issues and trivial ones; there are
concessions we all make to sur-
vival and comfort. To make each
other feel guilty or less woman-
ly; to perceive ourselves in the
role of exemplar of
Feminism—or even more
destructively, as inadequate at
Feminism—will drain energy
that should be used for creative
and constructive solutions to our
differences and difficulties.

The games I have discussed
here are ones which I play all the
time, and help others to play.
They are especially prevalent
among white Feminists with
middle-class origins. To deny
our origins is to deny our roots;
but recognition of the sources of
fear and games will strengthen
us. We owe it to each other to
stop playing and start challenging
each other to grow.

Rebels or Collaborators
Raps Florynce Kennedy

Carolyn Agosta

Once more Denver received
an earful in the form of Florynce
Kennedy, radical, Black,
Feminist lawyer. Her “rap”
began with four songs, three of
which are take-offs from the
originals, “Richard, the Red-
Necked Reindeer,” “Abortion
Rap,” “Striped Christmas,” and
“God Rest Ye Merry
Gentlemen.” Since she was
speaking at the University of
Colorado Medical Center, her
talk centered around the

medical profession. She stated
that the health community has
been neutral in the past...but
that now, no one can be
neutral...we are either rebels or
collaborators.

“Women are still studying
nursing and if there ever was a
group of ‘niggerized,
niggerizers,’ it's the nurses.”
Niggerization is a divide and con-
quer technique, a sort of DandC
Strategy, and is a part of the mid-
dle class. But according to her
claim, there is no real middle
class, since 90% of the country is
poor and the other 10% is rich.
This was demonstrated during
the tornadoes. People who had
been labeled “middle class” lost
their mortgaged homes, cars;
people who had thought that
they were ‘above’ welfare,
suddenly were forced to turn to it
for help. This “instant niggeriza-
tion” brought on many symptoms,
like paranoia, that are
associated with poor people.

M.D. Fetus-fetish

Ms. Kennedy talked about the
nursing profession and the
whole medical profession as not
being ‘absolutely dedicated,’
that politics plays a large role in
them. Gynecological

departments are heavily
dominated by Catholic men,
fetus-fetish M.D.s, who take the
stand that any woman who
wants to terminate a pregnancy

is only going through a ‘phase’
and when the time comes, she
will “happily” become a mother.
(??) She spoke of the medical
profession losing the mythical
respect of the poor. The profes-
sion needs to reach into the
community and bring “the
message from the outside in.”
Since there is very little light
coming into the profession, peo-
ple think that doctors are always
right.

Another interesting point that
Ms. Kennedy mentioned was the
fact that “up until 1869, the
Catholic Church allowed abor-
tions of a fetus that was male up
to 40 days and a fetus that was
female up to 80 days.” (That
should be a good clue as to what
the church thinks about us
(women!!? Now the Catholic
Church is in the forefront with its
concerns about continuing un-
wanted pregnancies...

Breakdown Elitism

Flo Kennedy praised the CU
Medical Center Women's
Caucus (who had sponsored
her). It started around faculty
and now includes students and
clerical personnel, which has
very much enriched it. "The
hierarchical professional elitism
is breaking down.”

To close, here is a quote from
Flo Kennedy, call it a thought for
every day: “Anyone who is close
enough to hurt us has some
weak point that we can shoot
at.”

Ed's note: Florynce Kennedy is
one of the founders of the
National Organization of
Women, a member of the
National Black Feminist
Organization, co-author of the
book Abortion Rap, and
author of Pathology of Oppression.

s .Female. Culture

Big Mama Rag Vol. 2.No. 8

WOMEN in the arts

Artists Show Off Talents

r.

Local

Anne Zeigler, Carol Lease

ROCKY MOUNTAIN
WOMEN IN THE ARTS
(RMWA) is a newly-formed,
non-profit group for all area
women interested in com-
munication with other women
artists, in showing and selling
their work, and in establishing
a Center where their efforts
can be centralized and
recognized.

Women working in any art
form are welcome, as are
women who wish to support
the artists’ goals. Specific
group goals range from
consciousness-raising to sales,
in an ultimate effort to en-
courage excellence in women’s
art, RMWA’s most ambitious
hope is to establish a Women’s
Arts Center in Denver where
women can show regularly,
meet and exchange ideas and
experiences, and share ser-
vices and facilities.

Women interested in Rocky
Mountain Women in the Arts
can come to meetings held
every Tuesday evening at 8:00
at 1895 Lafayette Street, or
contact Jan at 388-6590.

Soup’s On Exhibit

The serenity and excellence
of RMWA’s first show at
Soup's On, a downtown
Denver restaurant, belie the
frustration, betrayal, and
struggle that went into setting
it up, and are a tribute to the
resilience and persistence of
the women involved.

According to the two RMWA
members with whom we
spoke, the story goes
something like this:

The group had been discuss-
ing putting on a show or
creating alternatives to
showings when their meeting
was interrupted by a telephone
call from a would-be Sir
Lancelot named Richard Vin-
cent. Vincent offered, as a
political and artistic statement,
to organize a show for RMWA
at Soup's On. He extravagantly
promised to provide free
publicity, lots of wine, and
comprehensive mailing lists.
He offered to make all
arrangements with Soup's On
and with the Friends of the
Denver Symphony, for whom
the show was to be a benefit.

Although some women in
the group were instinctively
turned off by the man, their in-
experience, disorganization,
and lack of confidence made
the idea seem like “an answer
to our prayers.” So the group
made a decision to work with
Vincent.

Sir Lancelot Foiled Again

At this point the deception
began. Vincent changed the
date of the showing without in-
forming anyone, hired an auc-
tioneer that he said had had
considerable experience, but
who in fact had had none at all,
and had invitations printed that
did not even mention the art
show, thus forcing the women
to redo them. Despite such ob-
vious deviations from the truth,
Vincent's air of
professionalism, in demanding
deadlines, in seeming to know
so much, was still convincing
to the RMWA women; and it
wasn’t until almost show time
that the women realized how
thoroughly they had been con-
ned.

Despite all the frustration in
putting the show together, and
despite Vincent's “help,”
despite the fact that few, if any,
of the “Friends of the Denver
Symphony” showed up, and
despite the refusal of the
owners of the show to exhibit
two works by Fran Gottlieb
which they called “obscene,”
the show was a financial and
emotional success. Rocky
Mountain Women in the Arts
has made and is making money
from the show.

RMWA Grows

Rather than being destroyed
by their betrayal by Vincent,
the RMWA women have been
strengthened. “We learned not
to depend on others to do our
work for us. We learned to talk
about our mistakes. We see
that our group was essentially
used by a man trying to make
a name for himself."

This summer RMWA will
participate in the Street
Festival in Denver (the date of
which has not been set). It is
organizing shows and doing
some consciousness-raising.
The RMWA women are all con-
cerned with being women ar-
tists, and there is great diversi-
ty among group members as to
whether “women” receives
the emphasis or “artists.” They
welcome all women.

“Ladies of Mexico” by Carole Katchen

Judy Chicago says women’s art comes from an inner sanctum, and
this makes women’s art intrinsically different from men’s. She has
observed four patterns in women’s art. Maryse Holder in Off Our
Backs, “...repeating forms (cylinders for instance); circular forms
(deriving from the breast perhaps); organic forms (she calls these
“biomorphic”). Examples would be plants, genitalia, gardens. ...Cen-
tral aperture, the representation of an opening in the center of a pain-
ting. These openings could appear as hearts of flowers (O'Keeffe), or
as tunnels or portals leading to a mysterious infinity beyond.”

Organic Imagery

However, organic imagery is not limited to women. I think the early
Egyptian, Byzantine, and African art to be very biomorphic and organic
in form. They possessed those same smooth curving planes as the
Surrealists later developed. Arp, Dali, Ernst, Miro, Fini, Moore, Oelze,
Oppenheim, Tanguy, and Toyen all expressed themselves with
dynamic organic and biomorphic forms, whether in painting or in
sculpture. Surrealism is these forms—not from the exterior realistic
world; but from the interior, the unconscious and the imagination.
“Expressing inner perceptions visually,” as Andre Breton put it.

Organic and biomorphic imagery have been around since the
earliest artists, and have been created successfully by men and
women. Women have also created concrete and realistic imagery and
forms. Cindy Nemser and Irene Moss from The Feminist Art Journal
express their viewpoints:

Other critics, such as Linda Nochlin and myself, are unable to pick
out any all-prevailing traits in either painting or sculpture that will im-
mediately proclaim it to be the art of a woman. This is hardly strange,
as psychologists and biologists have been unable to discover any
definitive relationship between female hormones and female ar-
tifacts. Moreover, since the two sexes have jointly built and par-
ticipated in similar cultures, it seems rather unlikely that the art of each
sex should be highly distinctive from that of each other. At this time,
however, our total culture is in a stage of transition and evolution. A
new woman is emerging, a woman who is often setting herself apart
from man, or at least is in opposition to him in order to sound forth her
own individual voice. Why not wait, hold back, and examine each in-
dividual sound for its own rhythm, beauty, and harmony as it appears
or has appeared in the recent past? Why work in the old way to create
an amorphous category and dump all females into it? All women are
not alike.” —Cindy Nemser.

Women artists should be able to paint “tender” paintings if that is
what they want to do or “bold” ones if they are so inclined, or “circles”
but, in any case, only because that is what they want to do and not
because they have a hang-up about their wombs.” —Irene Moss

Art history has relegated women to either the “decorative arts and
crafts,” or to the back pages behind men. The art world is run
predominantly by men, for male collectors and buyers, and for male
critics and jurors. Many women, art separatists as well as those who
believe art is art (men and women have equal talent but are not equal
in the art world) have found the need for an alternative system. Art
collectives and women’s galleries have shot up throughout the coun-
try, Denver notwithstanding.

Review

The Rocky Mountain Women’s
Art Show, May 1-25 at Soup’s
On restaurant in downtown
Denver was the first attempt of
area women collectively making
an effort to show and sell their
work. They couldn't have chosen
a better place for ex-
posure...downtown, crowds at
lunch time, and an almost
gallery effect from the interior
design of the restaurant. For a
first timer it was good. A lot of
women were represented and
quite a few sold; there were also
a good number of methods and
media shown—plastic arts,
prints, photographs, sculpture,
pottery, and fibers. However, the
overall quality of the work left a
lot to be desired. Sloppy techni-
que and poor realization of the
subject matter predominated.
Barbara Baer and Carol Katchen
offered the best in my eyes.

Carol Katchen had a series of
black and white prints. She uses
smooth, clean, and strong lines,
expressing movement vividly.
“Fire,” a woman bent over
backwards on her legs and hips,
emanates grace and passion and
lots of energy. Barbara Baer had
two sculptures, “Chain Gang”
and “Anthro-Lectric.” “Chain
Gang” is a simple sculpture
made from plexiglass and small
link chains. The coloring and the
simple forms produced provide a
compelling design which is high
in originality. Her other piece ex-
hibited was an organic, breasty-
looking light structure. The form
is great; all I can say is it’s
beautiful and very refreshing to
see good modern sculpture
small and concise.

I am glad the show was put on
and hope there will be others, for
each of us has to work, develop
and grow with our art.

The Twenty-Second Annual
Metropolitan Show at the
Denver Art Museum came in
with over one-third of its works
produced by women. The best,
without any doubt in my mind,
was “Rocking Chair” by Marilyn
Martin. It’s a plexiglass rocking
chair with solid smooth planes;
the seat is a clear box half-filled
with different colored pebbles
and water. It reminds me of a
mountain pool, so cool and
smooth, while I rock in the chair,
daydreaming of putting my hand
in the slightly greenish water.

Kay Koch-Brown had a good
entry. Her technique is good, her
colors defined but subtle; yet her
subject matter leaves a lot to be
desired. I am not too partial to
mid-western regionalism,
though if you have nostalgia for
tractors in Kansas you would
hang it in your living room and
dream on.

“The Go Game” by Susan
Walp was recommended for a
one-person show. I was greatly
surprised; it was one of the
worst things in the show. It was
poor technically, unsanded sur-
face with lots of air holes, poor
brush stroking and muddy color-
ing. The subject matter was bor-
ing, not even inspiring your im-
agination to wander.

Other outstanding con-
tributions were made by Alice
Abrams, “Flame ring hanging,”
a beautifully simple sculptured
ring; Becky Clune, “Myth,” an
attractively designed neckpiece
made from silver, brass, amber,
garnets, and bone; “Bread Box
—B.L.T.” Peg Goldberg evoked
the pop art imagery of the sixties.
A larger than life B.L.T. staring at
you in the face brings back the
smells of the “round the corner.”

More on Page 10

Interview. «<<

MARTIN/LYON

Metivists, Authors, Lesbian

Phyllis Lyon and Del Martin are probably the first two women you
ever hear about in terms of national exposure about being Lesbians.
In 1955 they started one of the first organizations in the country for
Lesbians and they have been active ever since, first with the Civil
Rights Movement, then with Gay Liberation, and now they are work
ing primarily within the Women's Movement. Sometimes referred to

affectionately as the “Mothers of Lesbian Liberation,”
they recently published a book called Lesbian/Woman, 
Women and Lesbians.

They were in
engagement at Colorado University
on April 5 to do a workshop at the Denver Center and it was
Big Mama Rag (by Janet Sergi) and 
others who “picked their brains”

for information on the Women’s Movement, the Daughters of Bilitis, the recently-formed San Francisco
Lesbian Mothers Union and anything else we could think of.

Although they provided us with 
valuable information, we
seriously gave us a two-hour interview and supplied
us with so much that we were only able to reprint a portion of
that interview here. The following are excerpts:

Choc: Do you see the Women's
Movement as just a civil rights
movement, or do you see it as a
lot more than that?

Phyllis: I think it’s both. The
Women’s Movement is running
on a lot of different levels so you
have women doing things from a
lot of different levels of con-
sciousness. NOW has primarily
aimed at civil rights, but there’s a
lot of awareness among NOW
women that they also need to
deal in terms of what's going to
happen in the future — what
kind of society do we want — and
what in the hell are we talking
about when we talk about
revolution.

Del: What kind of a society do we
want to live in? We may think in
terms of what could happen in
the next 5 or 10 years, but we
have to go way beyond that. We
think it is very necessary for
there to be some women’s think
tanks where different women
from various groups really get
together and start thinking about
the future and what is it we want
in this society. So we would like
to see Feminists rally all over the
country doing this sort of thing.
And then maybe getting
together later to see what all
we've come up with, you know,
sort of brainstorming.

Phyllis: There are a lot of women
who have decided maybe
socialism or Marxism or
whatever “ism” is the answer,
but it doesn't necessarily seem
to me in view of what we've seen
of socialist societies that that’s
really the answer for women and
gay people anyhow. I have not
seen any societies evolving
around the world that I would be
comfortable living in in terms of
being a woman and being a gay
person.

Del: Not only that. At least in this
society we know who the enemy
is, we know what we're dealing
with. Some of these other con-
cepts — like a socialist govern-
ment — would just change the
name of my oppressor and I
wouldn't have the advantage of
at least knowing the structure
and knowing the society I'm
dealing with. You talk about
revolution — you turn things up-
side down — but the way I see it
now, certainly gay people would
still be oppressed.

Phyllis: You don’t want to turn it
around so that we still end up on
the bottom.

Choc: Do you think that all
women are, or should be,
Lesbians, in order for a real
women’s revolution to take
place?

Del: Speaking personally, I'm
certainly not a Separatist. I don’t
see how you can do away with
half the population of the world. I
also wouldn’t want to live in just
a gay society. I'm really in-
terested in all human beings. I
think there needs to be a lot of
consciousness-raising...a lot of
changes in society. Every in-
stitution needs to be turned up-
side down. Some women who
want to separate out — who
don't even want to have their boy
children — this is counter-
revolutionary. I think I’m too
much of a humanist to buy all
that.

Phyllis: Yeah, I'd agree with that.
As far as all women being
Lesbians, I think certainly all
women have that potential. Or
even more broadly, all people
really have the capacity to relate
to both sexes — on a sexual
basis. A lot of switching is
happening within the Feminist
movement. A lot of women are
becoming aware of either their
own inherent Lesbianism that
they weren't aware of, or were
afraid to face. Or simply that it’s
a lot easier to deal with women
nowadays than it is to deal with
men. I've never quite been able
to understand why everybody
freaks out — all the heterosex-
uals seem to think somehow or
other that if we loosen up the
laws on homosexuality,
everybody is going to turn gay.
I've really always had a little
more faith in heterosexuality
than that — than they seem to
have.

Janet: What do you think about
the concept of a woman's
culture? The Women’s Move-
ment is not just a civil rights
movement and it’s not exactly a
humanist movement. At this
time in history, we have to focus
on women and the concept of a
woman’s culture with woman's
art philosophy, critiques of the
male-dominated culture. What
are your views on that aspect of
Feminism?

Phyllis: I think it’s really exciting
— the kinds of things that are
happening. I think that a
woman's culture is not
necessarily being developed —
it's being dredged up out of
where it’s been. It isn’t as if we
haven't ever had a women’s
culture — it’s been suppressed,
repressed, never discussed,
nobody knew about it. Now it’s
being pulled together so that
more and more women are
becoming aware of the
capacities of women to create.
Marge: I understand you are the
co-founders of the Lesbian
Mothers Union, or helped to
found it. What is this organiza-
tion, what is it all about?

Del: The Lesbian Mothers Union
grew out of the Gay Women's
West Coast Conference in 1971.
At this point I threw out the idea
that there were Lesbian mothers
and that their issues were not
being dealt with either in the gay
movement or in the Women’s
Movement. All of a sudden we
had a bunch of women deman-
ding a workshop and also
questioning why we didn’t have
child care there. Nobody ever
thought in terms of having child
care at a Lesbian conference
because of literature that’s been
handed down by the
professionals who talk about
sexual behavior rather than the
whole person — who might be a
gay person even though there
are lots of women who are ac-
ting out heterosexual roles.
We've been following all the
different custody cases and
helping and supporting women
who have custody cases going.
Then we also have rap sessions
where women can discuss some
of the problems they have with
their children, with their
neighbors, within the family —
how do you tell your kids? Are
you open in front of the kids?...
They also have socials where
they get their families together
because they think it is impor-
tant for the children to have
peers who are in the same
situations...
Marge: You said earlier you con-
sider Lesbianism to be the
backbone of the Women’s Move-
ment. Why do you think that?

Phyllis: There’s just so many of
us in it and we all seem to be do-
ing a lot of work. And we don’t
have to ask our husbands if it’s
all right for us to go to the NOW
meeting or whatever meeting.
We're free to get involved. DOB
(Daughters of Bilitis — the first
Lesbian organization in the U.S.
—Ed.) was essentially a
women's rights organization
from the beginning. It didn’t real-
ly quite know that’s what it was,
but a lot of the things DOB was
saying in the late 50’s and 60's
are the same kinds of things that
the Women’s Movement is say-
ing now. Since Del got on the
national board of NOW, we dis-
covered there are all these gay
sisters who are presidents of
NOW chapters and who are very
involved on this level or that
level. And more and more all the
time are coming out and being
open about it. There's just really
no question that a lot of the work
and a lot of the creativity and a
lot of the blood, sweat and tears
in the Women’s Movement has
come from gay women, mostly
gay women in the closet until
fairly recently.

Phyllis Lyon

Choc: You've been working with
Lesbians for a number of years. I
wonder if you could tell us of
some of the changes you've
seen. How would you compare,
say, working with Lesbians in
1974 to working with Lesbians
when you first started
Daughters of Bilitis?

Del: In the first place, it's Bilitis
(Bilitis)... a

Choc: I never did know how to
pronounce that.

Del: Bilitis makes it sound like
tonsillitis and a disease, and
we're trying to get away from
the disease concept. There's just
been tremendous changes.
When we first came out so to
speak, everybody was into the
whole butch-femme trip. You
found that that was the way you
had to act in order to be accepted
by your peers, and of course,
everybody's looking for a support
group, so we got into the role-
playing in the beginning. Except
I had a problem playing the butch
role — I was a pretty sissy butch.
I remember there were eight of
us who'd started DOB — four
couples, and there was one
other couple that the butch
didn’t seem so butchy either so
she and I became buddies. We
began to get into more discus-
sion and we decided we should
be developing our own ways of
relating instead of imitating the
only relationships we'd had as a
model — the heterosexual one.
We would have to really start to
think in terms of how best we
could work out our own
relationships and not do this im-
itation thing. As we delved into
that we began to realize then the
whole thing about sex roles —
what are called masculine and
feminine are indeed human
traits and that we all have these
varying traits to varying degrees
and that what society had been
handing down was really a
cultural thing because in other
cultures the role could be reversed.

Marge: I'd like to play the devil's
advocate for a few minutes
because in doing panels, es-
pecially in high schools, one of
the most sensitive areas is that
of gay parents and the children
in that situation.

Phyllis: That is a problem. Any
child growing up in any kind of
“deviant” family, whether it’s
hippy, divorced, poor, rich, if
they're different than their peer
group, they're going to have
some kind of trouble with their
peers. I almost died the first time
I had to go to school wearing
glasses. Everybody knew boys
never make passes at girls who
wear glasses. In those days that
was the feeling. So you cannot
protect kids from what's gonna
happen in the outside world. But
that's not a reason not to be open
and honest with your kids. You
can't raise your kids and never
tell them you're a Lesbian
they'll have all these strange
feelings about what's going on
with their mother and who are
these strange women that come
in and you never see any kind of
affection, they never know about
love between adults. That seems
to me to be a lot worse than
somebody yelling on the
playground, ‘Yeah, yeah, yeah
your mother’s a Lesbian,” or
something like that. If you give
the child the support within the
home so that the child un-
derstands the whole situation
and understands why the kids
are going to yell that, it's not a
pleasant thing for them, but they
can certainly deal with the other
kids, deal with a hell of a lot. And
I think they can deal with that kind
of thing a lot better than with
growing up in an anti-affection
home or in a home where they
always know there’s something
there that they can’t quite put
their finger on. And where the
mother’s miserable. It's like kids
that grow up in families where
the parents stay together for the
sake of the children, the kids
always know there's something
wrong. Kids are very perceptive.
Marge: You mentioned that in
addition to your book
Lesbian/Woman that you have
two other publications?

Phyllis: We've done a little
booklet through the National Sex
Forum called Lesbian Love and
Liberation, which is illustrated
with photographs of gay women.
And we're also working on a
book called Lesbian/Mother,
but we haven't started writing it
yet.

Photos by Linda Lane

Columns

sth)

re ee

{oat 3  
Big Mama Rag Vol: 2 No. 8°

comment and health  
‘Rooming-in’~ Outdated?

This is a column for men and  
children as well as for women.  
This is a column about the first  
hours and days of child care.  
Since the woman is central  
physiologically in the childbirth  
process, we must reclaim our  
rights from the hospital and the  
doctor. This means knowing  
what is available today in the  
hospital, knowing what we want  
and why we want it. This means  
having the facts that give us the  
courage to stand against male  
mate and male doctor if their  
opinions are different than ours.  
(The subject here is limited to  
hospital deliveries though some  
of the ideas may relate to home  
delivery as well.)

“Rooming-in” refers to the  
newborn child’s remaining with  
the mother in her room almost  
immediately after birth through  
discharge from the hospital. This  
was the usual arrangement in all  
U.S. hospitals until the turn of  
the century, and there never has  
been nurseries for normal new-  
borns in most European  
hospitals. So why did the new-  
born nursery, with strictly  
limited parent-child interaction,  
become the norm in this coun-  
try? I have been able to find only  
suggestions, not definite  
answers.

Possible Answer

One possible answer is the  
worry over infection. It should be  
remembered that at this time  
most deliveries were still done at  
home. Women entering the  
hospital were often otherwise ill  
or had problem pregnancies. These  
women and their babies went to  
large open wards rather than to  
rooms of two to four women as is  
done today. Screening techni-  
ques for disease organisms  
were primitive or nonexistent, so  
an infected woman's bacteria or  
virus literally flew around the  
ward finding easy prey in the  
debilitated women and the new-  
borns. However, it has since  
been clearly shown that  
“rooming-in” is actually safer  
than nurseries with respect to  
infection.

At the turn of the century, a  
French doctor, Pierre Budin, was  
busy popularizing nurseries and  
incubators for premature in-  
fants. Budin sent a young stu-  
dent, Martin Cooney, to exhibit  
his methods at fairs in England  
and the United States. Cooney  
finally settled on Coney Island  
where, in 39 years, he raised  
over 5,000 premature infants.

Why the ideas for premature  
infants came to be applied to all  
infants may have to do with  
Cooney’s commercial success.  
For whatever reasons, nurseries  
soon became the rule in our  
hospitals. With this separation  
often went other rigid rules  
which discouraged breast  
feeding and depersonalized the  
childbirth process. Healthy  
women, eager to care for their  
new children, were treated as in-  
valids. Fathers were often  
treated as intruders.

Today there is a swing back to  
“rooming-in” and other more  
open procedures, but this swing  
has been slow getting started.  
The roots go all the way back to  
some problems recognized by  
Budin and Cooney, who ran into  
many trouble spots as well as  
benefits with their procedures.  
One big problem was getting  
mothers to accept their children  
after the long period of separa-  
tion caused by using nurseries.

Slow Start

Then in the late 1940s Duke  
Hospital decided on an ex-  
perimental program of com-  
pulsory rooming-in. Interesting-  
ly, the rationale used was similar  
to that for instituting the nursery  
system in the first  
place—prevention of infection.  
The biggest obstacle wasn't con-  
vincing the mothers; it was the  
obstetricians and nurses who  
objected. Though prevention of  
infection was the motivation for  
the experiment, the primary  
rewards were psychological and  
educational.

Over twenty-five years later,  
“rooming-in” is still the excep-  
tion in U.S. hospitals, but  
evidence in its favor is piling up.  
Some of this research is review-  
ed in an outstanding article,  
which I recommend in its entire-  
ty to all of you. This is “Mothers  
separated from their newborn  
infants” by Marshall H. Klaus  
and John H. Kennell in Pediatric  
Clinics of North America, vol.  
17, no. 4, November, 1970.

Part II of this article, which dis-  
cusses specific ideas for  
women who are considering  
“rooming-in”, will be published  
next month. — Ed.

Note: Nothing has yet been  
decided about the legality and  
limits of midwifery in Colorado.  
We will report what is happen-  
ing as soon as anything does  
happen.

high school women

‘Girls,’ Start Cheering!

by Becky Bohannan

Athletics is a field which men have dominated ever since the  
Olympics of ancient Greece. But lately with the Billie Jean King-  
Bobby Riggs exhibition and such heart throbs as Olga Korbut, more  
and more people are taking an interest in women’s athletics. With  
this newly acquired enthusiasm, I investigated Cherry Creek High  
School's sports program. What I discovered simply reaffirmed my  
initial impression, that though the situation is not without hope,  
sexism abounds in the athletic department.

Cherry Creek offers thirteen  
varsity sports for boys, plus  
junior varsity, freshman and  
sophomore teams. It offers the  
girls a grand total of five, which  
are gymnastics, swimming, ten-  
nis, track and field hockey. The  
situation is improving. For the  
last ten to fifteen years (accor-  
ding to one coach) girls have  
been playing volleyball and  
basketball on the chance that  
these sports would become  
sanctioned by the Colorado High  
School Athletic Association.  
Now finally, both sports have  
been sanctioned for next year  
which means they will be able to  
receive funds out of the activities  
budget and play in a regular  
league.

Pat Morgan is a member of the  
girls’ track team in which her  
events are discus and shot-put.  
She is also on the volleyball  
team. Pat has a number of com-  
plaints about the sports  
program. Speaking on the small  
amount of funds granted to girls’  
teams, she says, “Boys get this  
and boys get that and they  
always come first in equipment  
and privileges. No attention is  
given the girls.” The coach of  
one of the girls’ teams says the  
same thing. She could not quote  
the figures exactly, but there is a  
large difference between the  
amount of funds the boys receiv-  
ed compared to the amount girls  
sports receive. She also  
protested the fact that in the  
sport she coaches, she is ex-  
pected to coach her entire team  
herself while the boys’ team of  
the same sport has a coach and  
two assistant coaches. Each  
team has an equal amount of  
participants and events. “I’m try-  
ing to do an impossible job,” she  
says, “if I'm to come out with a  
winning team.”  
Tiny Articles

Girls’ sports are rarely  
publicized to any extent, a fact  
which especially bothers Pat.  
“There's almost never anything  
in the school paper about the  
girls’ sports except maybe some  
real tiny article. Girls’ swim  
team puts up their own signs. No  
one comes to watch the track  
team. Oh, at the district and  
state meets there will be a few  
people, but otherwise it’s zilch.  
Of course, we don't have a fan  
club following us around. In pep  
assemblies you never hear  
about girls’ sports. The boys’  
football team has been in-  
troduced so many times you  
know every single guy. But the  
girls’ teams are never in-  
troduced. If they did, I don’t think  
the boys would take it.”  

In looking through the  
school’s annual for the last two  
years and back issues of its  
newspaper, it became evident  
that Pat had every right to com-  
plain. Cherry Creek's 1972 an-  
nual contained 22 pages  
devoted to sports. Four of these  
were about girls’ sports. The  
amount of space allotted to girls’  
sports actually declined in ‘73  
with only two pages represen-  
ting two of the five sports. A  
number of issues of the paper  
didn't even mention any girls’  
sports. Others had one article or  
possibly two. None were in a  
prominent position on the page.  
Most of the articles just gave a  
straight news story.

One article with the title  
“Women’s Lib in Sports,” (from  
The Union St. Journal, Sept. 21,  
1973) stood out from the rest. Its  
introductory paragraph began,  
“In the age of male dominance,  
the female role in sports was sit-  
ting on the sidelines cheering on  
the varsity (all male) teams.  
Now, however, the girls are  
realizing how much exercise  
conditions their figures, keeping  
them slimmer, trimmer, and  
generally good looking...”  
“Can't Leave Out Girls’’

Another example of the con-  
descending attitude toward  
girls’ sports appeared in an arti-  
cle written by a coach. He spoke  
of the outlook for the spring  
sports program and mentioned  
all the boys’ teams and a number  
of male individuals. At one point  
he stated, “...and yes, we cannot  
leave out the girls’ program...,”  
which was the only mention of  
girls in the entire article. This  
statement seems to reflect the  
general opinion of the school.  
‘Let's not forget the girls’ but  
that’s exactly what people do.  
Forget the girls.

The major complaint of the  
two women interviewed is the  
way in which men react to them,  
especially men also involved in  
athletics. “What really upsets  
me,” said the coach, “is that too  
many of the student body and es-  
pecially the boys involved in  
athletics, cut down the girls who  
go out for sports.” Being an ob-  
ject of this contempt, Pat said, “I  
get the impression sometimes  
that we're really looked down  
on. Especially in my event cause  
most girls don’t go around lifting  
weights.” She then went on to  
say, “The most recognized girls’  
sport at Cherry Creek is Pom-  
Pom, Cheerleading. Wow! It's  
fine to be a cheerleader but is  
that all the girls can be? The boys  
have the idea of putting us in the  
category of cheerleaders so that  
we can idolize them with their  
great accomplishments, not to  
be equal but to stay below and  
idolize, well FORGET IT!"

Contemptuous Treatment

If Cherry Creek is any indica-  
tion of other high schools, girls’  
athletic programs are neglected  
by school administrations and  
actually treated with contempt  
among certain students. But the  
situation is changing slightly. In  
the last two years two new  
sports have been added to the  
program and two more will be  
added next year. This could easi-  
ly be attributed to the Feminist  
movement, which has  
generated all the publicity and  
discussion of equal rights. The  
climate was right to expand the  
girls’ program. The contempt  
shown for girls in sports by  
athletic boys is probably their  
natural negative reaction to  
change that confronts their  
stereotypes of the role of women  
that we have all been indoctrinated with.

All Pat and others like her are  
asking for is a change. “Athletic  
girls just don’t have a fair chance  
to progress. None. Girls that  
want to compete should be able  
to. We have the same  
capabilities. We can compete  
against other women in the  
same events men compete in.  
But we're never given any  
recognition.” Well, the male  
athletic establishment had  
better beware, women athletes  
not only have the drive to com-  
pete, they also have the drive to  
prove themselves, and they will.

Editorials, Letters

letters home to mama

Dear Sisters,

I enjoy BMR. It’s kind of nice to feel part of something warm and unified and moving and whole. Some people call it Feminism.

In Sisterhood,  
Jeremy  
Aurora, Co.

To our sisters in Denver,

A group of ten women here in Albuquerque have come together to form the Labe Collective. We are concerned primarily with the Lesbian community and have begun to try to create an alternative to the bar. We have already had various activities and will continue to do so until we have raised enough money to put a down payment on a building located centrally in the City.

One of the ideas that has been discussed is a Summer Solstice Celebration to be held on property located on the edge of the Santa Fe National Forest approximately 90 miles northwest of Albuquerque. Preparations are already being made; we want your help; we would like to have you join us in getting it together, i.e., planning and conducting workshops, etc. We think it will be fruitful to provide a variety of entertainment, booths, workshops and daycare, not systemized but structured enough so that it would be a creative learning experience, not just a tribal stomp run through a haze of alcohol and dope. We invite the women of Colorado to participate in any way they so desire through the above mentioned concepts.

We will be facing some problems and need many ideas to deal with them. Some of these problems are: cooking facilities, water facilities, sanitary facilities, daycare, information services. We would like to deal with these problems in the safest and most ecologically sound manner. We would like to provide a large main shelter in case of rain and a large communal cooking area. We feel the best way to deal with the sanitary question is to bury evacuation and deposit paper in a fire. We would like to set up an area and have personnel for daycare so that women with young children can enjoy the festival without the constant demands of their children.

Some of the activities we would like to provide are booths so that women with arts and crafts may have an opportunity to sell their wares, food booths for women with special interests in cooking, one day workshops including Yoga, breathing, oming, sun-bathing, cloud watching, massage, mandala-making, silent hikes, Sufi dancing, an all-inclusive Essence of Women trip. Other workshops may include self-help, women and the law, occult studies, etc.

Any suggestions, help, participation, energy, love are welcome.

This festival will be free. The booths will cost approximately $2.00 a day to rent. We ask that sisters bring their own food, water and sleeping bags for 2 days of celebration.

In sisterhood,  
representing Labe,  
Kris  

620 Free(wo)man N.W.  
Albuquerque, N.M. 87107  

Dear Sisters:

As a Lesbian peer counsellor and a resource person for matters Feminist in New Jersey and Lesbian Nation-wide, I was glad to receive the April 1974 issue of Mama Rag and especially the listing of the Colorado contacts. I see that Love/Abbott AND Martin/Lyon both spoke in your area—wow! They haven't even done so in New York!

Denver/Boulder had a DOB for a short while, but there seemed to be multiple hassles, and they dissolved a long time ago. I have no idea whether any of the women on your publication were ever connected with DOB.

I was interested in the page concerned with individual women’s stories of their personal developments, and was amazed at one woman's change from Feminism into the Left. Most of the women I knew did this in reverse, which would be my own position. But I guess we each have a different drummer to follow.

As a Lesbian I am totally committed to the female cause—although I have more disagreements than agreements with the more conservative portion of the movement, principally NOW. Yet we do work with them in New Jersey. I cannot see my lot with the Left at all, since I consider them not only sexist, but anti-gay basically.

Glad things are going great guns in Colorado. At least you got rid of the pesky sodomy laws—something we haven't done yet here.

In sisterhood,  
Julie Lee  

Lesbian Counsellor  
Daughters of Bilitis  
in New Jersey  

Dear Big Mama Rag,

I’d like to share with Big Mama Rag readers my response to the NOW panel on Lesbianism and my changing perspective.

NOW was criticized for not inviting a Dyke Separatist to participate on the panel. The person responsible for organizing the panel had had previous experience with Dyke Separatists. Her experience was that wherever Dyke Separatists are included on panels the atmosphere fills with animosity and hatred, and that energies converge on the issue of separatism to the total exclusion of other Lesbian perspectives. She felt that since this was the first panel on Lesbianism at NOW, she preferred there be a broader based discussion this time and that issues of Dyke Separatism be discussed at another time.

Secondly, this panel was essentially an exchange by the Gay Coalition of Denver and NOW. April 16th two NOW women presented a panel at the Coalition general meeting. Lesbian panel members did not presume to represent all aspects of Lesbian perspectives.

Thirdly, I want to point out a double-standard I see inherent in this Dyke Separatist criticism of NOW. I hear the Separatists saying to NOW women: “You should have invited us. You should want us although we want nothing to do with you. You are all wrong and we are all right.”

If you want to speak to a NOW general meeting, Separatists, why don’t you go to the NOW board and tell them what you want? NOW women aren't mind-readers. I don’t understand why it’s important to you to zap a NOW meeting since you detest NOW women and don't want to work with them anyway.

During the evening the zappers criticized me for wearing earrings, for my clothing choice, for my choice of words, for my political priority—working on a state anti-discrimination bill. Sounds to me like they’re on the same old trip—intolerance of diversity and imposition of their values on me—just like out there in the macrocosm—whites imposing their values on blacks, Chicanas, Indians, etc.; straights on gays, men on women.

As I see it, it’s very important to you Separatists that I be just like you. It’s very important to me that all of us cultivate a climate in which we feel free to express our uniqueness rather than demand conformity of one another.

I am reminded of the medical model with which psychiatrists relate to people. This is a belief system which focuses on illness: what's wrong with you or me. Inherent in this perspective is the assumption that only certain people have the knowledge of what's wrong, and can, therefore, make the diagnosis—tell us what our wants and needs should be.

In the field of mental health, psychiatrists, of course, hold this power position. So that a depressed housewife is sick—she needs to become a better wife, mother, or whatever. A Lesbian is a Lesbian because she got screwed up in her sexual preference—she had bad experiences with men and all she really needs is a good fuck (by a man of course and of course this “good” fuck will change her sexual orientation).

The only difference in this particular situation is that it’s the Separatists who have taken the power position, the assumption of the “correct” value system, and have applied it to me, other Lesbians and NOW women. We “deviate” from the Separatists’ model code of good behavior. The terms used are different but the essence is the same. Because I wear clogs, corduroy jeans, a turtleneck top and earrings, I'm a classist. Somehow I don’t quite see the connection between what I choose to wear and how my choice discriminates against Separatists. I haven't determined for them what they should wear.

My choice of words somehow comes out of the Separatists’ version of the sickness model as being a reflection of my intellectualism. I feel like I'm back in the McCarthy era with that accusation.

In contrast to the medical or sickness model, the model I feel comfortable with is the growth or existential model, in which the focus is on being. This model recognizes and values inner experience and returns the locus of evaluation within the individual from the traditional external sources: God, men, and what will the neighbors think.

Growth is inherent within the

More on Page 10

FEMINIST AWARDS OF THE MONTH!

The staff of Big Mama Rag would like to extend our appreciation and 1,000 thank yous to Elissa Meyer and Linda Lane, who resigned this month as co-editors. Where would we have been without you folks? Although Elissa and Linda will be functioning in other capacities on the paper, we wanted everyone to know how much they’ve helped the paper to grow and how much we will miss them as editors.

Where We're At

by Jackie Bryson

During the past four months, the staff of Big Mama Rag has been struggling with its own internal problems, while attempting to slay society's dragon of sexism. We want to share with our readers the process and outcome of our struggles.

In January, the old staff of BMR (approximately eight women) called together women of Denver who were interested in working with the paper. More than 40 women responded. We were delighted with the response, and, quite frankly, overwhelmed with some of the logistics and complexity of feelings that developed with an organization of this size. We tried to adjust our structure to accommodate. We became more hierarchical—with an editorial board, three part-time, paid staff members, and many talented and enthusiastic women who wanted to help. We tried assigning tasks to new people and dispersing responsibilities. Personal contact facilitated the growth of trust and understanding among some women, but frustrations and misunderstandings developed among others on the staff. Some new people felt left out of decision-making; staff members felt overburdened trying to work out feelings and publish a monthly newspaper at the same time. Charges of elitism, Lesbian-overkill, and editorial authoritarianism were made both face-to-face and behind people's backs. We made some mistakes. Some were mended. Some were not. We were getting uptight, so we decided to slow down and take a look at our process.

At a general meeting early in May, we all decided that we needed time to get to know each other, to share ideas and questions, to develop the kind of trust that is essential in working on a women’s paper. We have been taking time to do this, and that is why this issue of BMR is a bit late. We also decided to hold some informal “educational consciousness-raising” sessions (Radical Feminist Theory, Feminist Poetry, Feminist Journalism, and Feminist Photography). We have been discussing our personal and political ideas in these small groups in order to re-define the needs and structure of BMR.

To some extent this has worked. For the women who have stayed with the paper, there is much optimism and a re-commitment to the goal of the paper—to represent a radical feminist point of view in covering local news and feature stories, as well as to continue to develop our theories and practice of a female culture. We have found it necessary again to re-structure our group. Presently, there are 15-20 women who have a firm commitment to the paper, and with a group of this size, we have been able to return to our original structure as a collective. Meetings are held twice a month and business and editorial decisions are made by a consensus of women present at those meetings. Any women participating in decision-making or any solely “creative” aspect of the paper (photography, graphics, writing) is expected to do some share of the footwork involved in keeping the paper operating.

There are other internal decisions we have arrived at which are perhaps too petty and/or too boring to go into here. Mainly we want to let you know that BIG MAMA LIVES! We are alive, healthy, and functioning. We continue to get responses from our readers, but we want (and need) very much to hear more—letters, manuscripts, graphics, photos, etc. In addition, our monthly business meetings will be held on the first Sunday of the month at 10:30 a.m. in the BMR office (1724 Gaylord) and are open to any woman who wants to come.

to Editorials, Letters

Big Mama Rag Vol. 2 No. 8 ~

LETTERS

From Page 9

individual — she is self-  
actualizing until or unless the  
Process is interfered with,  
denied or de-valued. This is a  
particular problem with women  
in America, according to Anne  
Schaef, Feminist therapist. She  
believes that we as women in  
this culture have been trained to  
feel innately inferior and to in-  
validate our own perceptions.  
From there, I think, we go on the  
trip of invalidating other women.

The Separatists spoke of the  
necessity for women to be able  
to defend themselves against  
male physical attacks. I agree —  
I recognize my need to be able to  
defend myself from assault,  
whether my defense be either a  
verbal interruption of a would-be  
rapist’s program or a form of  
physical self-defense — judo,  
karate, etc.

Throughout the past year that  
I've been with the Gay Coalition  
of Denver, I’ve been criticized by  
various Lesbians for working  
with gay men. Again, people  
telling me to deny my positive  
experiences, deny my perspec-  
tive. (Tsk, tsk, Marge, you must  
really be more careful about the  
company you keep. After all you  
are a Lesbian and we all know  
that Lesbians hate men. You're  
going to ruin our reputations if  
you don’t stop this nonsense.’’)

I have felt tremendous support  
from the people in the Coalition.  
In that atmosphere I have felt  
comfortable to be open and have  
grown. As Anne Schaef says,  
“Any way to get somewhere else  
is to be where you are." My  
awareness has been of gay-  
straight issues and in that  
perspective I have worked.

Now I feel ready to move on —  
I want to work with women in an  
autonomous women’s organiza-  
tion. My decision is not in  
response, however, to the rejec-  
tion and animosity I have felt  
from Dyke Separatists. One  
doesn't grow in an atmosphere  
of fear and contempt.

My perspective is changing.  
The gay-straight issue is no  
longer primary with me. I've ex-  
plored it and now feel the need to  
explore sexism within myself  
and our culture.

Marge Johnson

Support Our Advertisers  
They Help Support Us

Bread Box — B.L.T. — stoneware, cotton and epoxy by Peg Goldberg from  
the Catalog of the Exhibition, 22nd Denver Metropolitan,

Local Talent - Review  
From Page 6

eatery a decade ago. ‘Stop Ac-  
tion,” Susan Rehschuh’s crea-  
tion, emanated a turmoil of sex-  
ual waves, a wildly moving black  
and white lithograph.

There were a number of bad  
entries in the show but overall I  
thought the women represented  
did well; they had good techni-  
que and imagery and proved that  
women can compete with men,  
and in some instances do much  
better. I was hoping to see more  
women represented, but the Art  
Museum is hardly a forum for  
non-sexism. The women show-  
ing at Soup's On made it. They  
beat the system and proved that  
women can show and sell by  
themselves, and that's the best  
thing to come out of Denver's art  
community in a long  
time—women collectively pool-  
ing their resources to produce an  
alternative and making it work in  
a male dominated field, it takes  
energy and woman power is  
what we've got plenty of.

THE WOMEN’S INSTITUTE AT  
THE UNIVERSITY OF  
COLORADO, BOULDER, IS  
SPONSORING A SEMINAR ON  
EDUCATION JULY 29 THRU  
AUGUST 10. THEY ARE IN NEED  
OF WOMEN PERFORMERS  
WHO COULD DONATE THEIR  
TIME AND TALENT. ANY  
WOMEN INTERESTED SHOULD  
CONTACT CHRIS, 843 17TH ST.,  
BOULDER.

Brie FROM VANTAGE.

for ONCE in my life

A LESBIAN Novel. BY DENVER AUTHORS,  
Tris Poitras SHEBE START

Go For THAT THE BOOKSRES IN Mid-way /

tranoyss new hairitage  
11097 E EVANS /  
CALL FOR APPOINTMENT

Robin Morgan Interview  
From Page 3 ~

“She (the woman) is in control of  
the birth of her consciousness;  
we are the mid-wives.” Compas-  
sion and humility were two  
characteristics she suggested  
that women ‘should try to  
develop in working with one  
another. She also stressed that  
women who have knowledge  
and skills should not use them as  
power over other women, but  
should share those skills with  
their sisters.

Colorado Women Where Are  
You? —We have gotten many  
responses about Big Mama Rag  
from across the country, but  
very little response from local  
women—the women for whom  
this paper is published. This is  
very discouraging. If you like  
us, hate us, or are just plain in-  
different, we would like to  
know about it. We need to find  
out if we're reaching any of you  
out there!

The Oil Crisis?

Maureen Mrizek

We're in the midst of an oil crisis, the cause may or may not be over  
demand and limited supply. We may never know, but one thing we can  
be sure of is that the oil industry itself will continue to prosper and  
grow. The oil crisis may continue indefinitely for a decade or more or  
we may find a way to end it.

One idea for ending the crisis is to nationalize the oil industry. To ac-  
complish this feat would require something close to a nuclear war  
because of the amount of economic and political power the industry  
wields in relation to the government.

Another idea is to nationalize the oil industry and give the oil  
tycoons the political recognition they deserve in terms of the real  
economic and political power they have. In other words merge the  
government and the corporate state. The way to accomplish this  
merger would be in the form of a monarchy. Originally monarchs  
came into being because people needed to be protected, a King would  
form a band of warriors and promise to defend a tribe or nation of peo-  
ple. The people in return would swear allegiance to the monarch and  
would trust in the King’s discretion as their ruler and governmental  
head. Our civilization (?) has now changed to the point that people do  
not need monarchs to defend them, but they are dependent on a highly  
developed technological economy which has at its base the need for  
oil...

The idea of a monarch has not been without its place in American  
history. There were many people who supported the idea of making  
Washington King after America had won her independence from  
England. The office of the president has many of the vestiges of an-  
cient royalty and the American people have always (WELL, ALMOST  
ALWAYS) encouraged and enjoyed a type of royal pageantry for its  
leaders. A very likely candidate for King in 1976 would be John D.  
Rockefeller (of Standard Oil). Rockefeller wouldn't be losing that much  
and America wouldn't be losing a president, she would be gaining a  
King.

At last the issues of democracy and economics could be clarified.  
People would no longer have to labor under the idea that they are  
working for themselves, that if they could only pull themselves up by  
their own bootstraps or G-Strings (whichever fits) they could be  
successful. Economic feudalism would be the name of the game, and  
now people would know what to call it. People would be working in  
royal factories for the king or some other nobleman. Actually people’s  
existences wouldn't change a lot. The Constitution and the Bill of  
Rights might be abolished, but it’s unpatriotic to exercise those rights  
anyway, so people wouldn't notice that. You might see the Royal Seal  
on gas station signs in place of Standard Oil or Exxon or some other  
brand name. An incredible moral burden would be lifted from the  
shoulders of citizens who had been chasing the elusive concept of  
democracy in a capitalistic economy. Sociologists, psychologists, and  
psychiatrists wouldn't have to be sneaky about socializing people,  
they could just tell them to get back to their class or class-caste, or off  
with their heads.

So you see a monarchy would actually clear up a lot of confusion  
and clarify our society for us. The next time you sit shivering in the  
dark—think in terms of a Royal Standard Oil and ask not what Stan-  
dard Oil can do for you but ask what it can do for the Kingdom.

47¢.

Monday

Tuesday

>women’s

Dr. Wolf Analyzes Roles

From Page 4  
Wolf, do you think there are  

things happening now that  
might actually be detrimental to  
the Women's Movement?  
Wolf: With any sort of mass  
movement processes of rou-  
tinization set in and people begin  
to take it over. There are definite  
advantages to be gotten from a  
movement. It is made into every-  
day kind of stuff. It’s a conser-  
vative kind of force, and I hope  
this doesn’t happen to the  
Women’s Movement. Then, too,  
some of us who have been active  
are pulling out because we have  
our own personal lives to get  
together. You're doing things out  
here, you're saying things, then  
you're going home and picking  
up the dishes. You've got to do  
something about that. It’s dis-  
honest! It's a continual struggle  
and I think it will be a struggle  
until I die.

BMR, In what directions do you  
see the Women's Movement  
growing?

Wolf: I think we're going to have  
more and more Women’s  
Centers. I think more women are  
going to get into public life,  
which is terribly important in a  
structural way. We're going to  
clean up the language; you know  
people say you're a “sissy” and  
monstrous things like that. And  
this is terribly important; we  
think the way we have words for.  
Women’s Centers are vital;  
libraries are vital.  
Women’s history has to be  
written just as Black history had  
to be written. We've started  
already. Women’s sociology that  
reflects women. We need  
women’s coalitions if we're go-  
ing to hang on to what we've got  
and go forward.

BMR: Do you think women are  
now beginning to identify with  
other women?

Wolf: I think one of the most im-  
portant things to come out of the  
Women’s Movement is the right  
of choice. This requires that  
women be supportive of one  
another. This support is  
something that we're not going  
to get from men. I think that in  
some ways segregation is  
essential for any oppressed group  
because you've got to get it  
together and you've got to have  
some kind of support.

RIP BOOKSTORE  
737 E. 17th Ave.

LARC WOMEN'S SECTION

ALSO BOOKS ON GAY LIBERATION,  
CHINA, CUBA, VIETNAM, MARXISM,  
ANARCHISM, IMPERIALISM,

ALL Books 20% Off AT  
ALL TIMES

42-6

- Saturday / 12°F

ma FD boat yy on Pn pn eA IS

Ce ee Pe Beste TT

Poetry =

Up like a dream,  
a vision, a face  
it’s gone.

Another cloud,  
another dream,  
another fantasy takes its place.

Close my eyes,

Photo by Pat Lang

past, present, future,  
happy, happiest, she and me.

Catch the minutes,  
collect the sunshine—  
the fun, the laughter,  
catch it all.

Close your eyes,

run through the fields with me.

Feel the cool wet grass beneath our feet.  
Feel the heat of the sun.

Try to remember the blue skies of early afternoon.  
Watch the sunset and wish you were an artist,  
dashing your brush across your canvas,

capturing the greys, pinks and oranges.

REMEMBER a love—

her smile,

her kind eyes,

her warm soft hands.

She held you against her breast.

She winked and you thought your every bit of being  
would burst with happiness.

Reach out with me,

Really try to touch.

You weren’t meant to touch it all

but believe you can and you may.

Get out of yourself now and share your happiness.  
Share your love

to your wealth.

Believe in your sister.

Give her hours of relief from pain, from worry.  
Give her love—understand.

Touch her heart with all your caring,

touch her mind with yours,

Touch her soft body and be ever so gentle.

Touch her and bring her face a smile in the morning sunlight.

Touch her and hold her in the darkness of late night,  
her sweet breath will sigh before sleep comes.

You'll feel her body come to a calm

and you'll feel peace in your arms.

Sleep now,  
be there again tomorrow,

REALLY BE THERE.  
SHE'LL KNOW.

— Ronnie Smolen

Lavender Jane now available at RIP bookstore, 737 E. 17th Ave.

record album  
COWARIE  
MAGAZINE

essin is  
AVAILABLE

AVA|  
(FIRST PRESSING of 1000)

SEND $5.35, 10s

petwork- ai w.98. sb

Bulk Orders to Women's Groups & Bookstores  
$3.50 per record plus postage.

You can watch my head split.  
A Mother —Sally Koenig  
You have given  
Birth to the unknown  
And Society  
Makes You claim  
It as your own.  
Sally Koenig  
CHIANG-MAI

Fourteen hours

And Burma-close  
Knapsacked

backs

From the Chao Phya  
by Jeep

by elephant

by hope

And dream-come-true  
we were  
garuda-carried

up three hundred

red gold dragon steps  
blessed

by the smiley eyed  
yellowed  
orange-robed

monk

underneath a bo tree  
the place of Buddha’s birth  
a lithe Thai said.

One wish

to Buddha

on stone-chapped knees  
two cents per wish  
and mine a dollar

just to be sure  
Siddhartha means  
every wish fulfilled  
One wish to gold-leafed  
Siddhartha

One love wish

for you and me

and fourteen hours  
down

to Bangkok.

A postcard

from you now

and then  
Remembering,  
Laughing, when

we were eagle-carried  
to a dream.

There,  
And back again.

Jeremy

To An Anonymous Woman Disc Jockey  
from an anonymous university secretary

The only reason, frankly,

that I was up so early,

was to take a shower, prepare

my body for the daily sacrifice;  
they pay me to sit at a desk

for eight hours — food

for hungry birds who pick

me clean by five.

So usually I don’t crawl out

until after sunrise, thickly protected  
with sleep like a cheap coat

that unravels slowly as I dance

on top of my brown, wooden

desk and perform all kinds of marvelous feats for money.  
By five, I'm a bloodshot parody of myself.  
But, as I said, I rose early

and turned on the radio — music  
morning jazz a woman's  
voice something about

a sunrise and I opened my door  
and there was rose grey

yellow blue

thank you. —Jeanne Winer

OUR MOTHERS—OURSELVES

Last night, I dreamed my mother stomped my guts into the floor  
With raging Army feet all cast in silver spurs and I threw up and  
over everything I lay there waiting to be tramped again  
into the floor

she only looked at me—the silver shining from her eyes  
gleaming Army boots inside

When I was young she always listened

fed herself into her young

and never made a sparrow of a noise

We tramped her in the living room

Marched upon her in the garden, buried her with tulip bulbs,  
We pushed her down the stairs

and stuffed her in the kitchen sink to drown.

One time she came around

brandishing a chair into our faces upside down

A Lion Tamer pacing round and round

jabbing at the air and stomping

Stomping up and down until she cried

she cried/ran down/slumped down upon the hardwood floor  
Last night I dreamed my mother stomped my guts into the floor  
The silver tears ran down her eyes

Until I couldn't see her anymore/no more/  

no more...  
—Chocolate Waters

892-1172

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

SUBSCRIBE!  

Name:  

Address:  

Zip:  

$5.00 one year sub  
$3.00 to Women’s Institutions  
$.40 back copies  

Bulk Rate  

U.S. Postage

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 2, no. 8, June 1974. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/BPOULG709804979/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark  
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.