Volume  
ee  

2  
GO OGa O. Me  
AK), Dy  

Rte) MO DR) ea  
\ i]  

DOr  

=I  
SZ  
\\  
ts  
p / ti  
i  

CY,  

a  

a  

L———  
SS  

nt  

~~  

~  
N\  
SS  
ss — fas. Nek  
— =< NS  
= ae — - : Z  
: eg = = :  
- = ~ ~ — SSS = "  

~  
7 ——.  

iz  

Jeusnor syowOoM VY

The President is DEDICATED TO PEACE ... HE SAYS... My  
HIGH SCHOOL WAS DEDICATED TO EXCELLENCE ... IT SAID...  
Bank AMERICA IS DEDICATED TO THE PEOPLE... IT SAYS...  

TERMS BEING WHAT THEY ARE, IT WOULD SEEM MORE  
THAN INAPPROPRIATE FOR US TO LAY DOWN YET ANOTHER  
DEDICATION AND GIVE ONE MORE CAUSE FOR SKEPTICISM. OUR  
HOPE IS THAT THIS PAPER, WITH THE HELP OF ALL THE WOMEN  
WHO READ AND CONTRIBUTE TO IT, WILL DEDICATE ITSELF; THAT  
IT WILL DEDICATE US TO EACH OTHER AND TO OURSELVES; THAT  
IT WILL REPLACE THE OFTEN TIMES EMPTY RHETORIC OF  
“SISTERHOOD IS POWERFUL” WITH A VIABLE AND TANGIBLE  
REALITY. WE BELIEVE THAT UNITING AROUND PROBLEMS  
COMMON TO ALL WOMEN WILL ALSO GIVE US THE STRENGTH TO  
DESTROY A SYSTEM THAT EXPLOITS AND MANIPULATES NOT  
ONLY WOMEN, BUT ALL PEOPLE OF ALL COUNTRIES. AND  
THROUGH THIS WE WILL FIND THAT WE HAVE MUCH MORE TO SHARE  
AS SISTERS, AS WOMEN, AS FRIENDS, AS HUMAN BEINGS.  

OUR HOPE IS THAT THE FEELINGS EXPRESSED THROUGH  
The Mama Rag WILL RELATE TO THE FEELINGS OF ALL WOMEN,  
EVERYWHERE, REGARDLESS OF THEIR POSITION OR SITUATION —  
TO THOSE WHO ARE LOST IN THE SOLITUDE OF A PREFABRICATED  
WOMAN'S ROLE AND TO THOSE WHO HAVE BEGUN TO FEEL THE  
UNDERLYING STRENGTH IN BEING A WOMAN.  

OUR INTENTION IS TO SERVE AS AN EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION  
SYSTEM FOR SURROUNDING AREA GROUPS, ACTIONS AND EVENTS;  
BUT MORE THAN THAT, WE HOPE THAT AS YOU READ THE  
ARTICLES HERE, YOU WILL FEEL THAT WHAT YOU HAVE TO  
SAY IS IMPORTANT — TO YOURSELF AND OTHER PEOPLE. WHAT-  
EVER IT IS, IF IT ENTERED YOUR MIND IT HAS PROBABLY  
ENTERED THE MINDS OF THOUSANDS OF OTHER WOMEN, AND  
SHARING AND EXCHANGING IS THE ONLY SOLUTION TO A PROBLEM  
THAT IS NOT PARTICULAR BUT PERSONAL TO ALL WOMEN.  

IF THERE WERE TO BE A DEDICATION IT SHOULD BE TO THE  
MEMORY OF ALL THE WOMEN WHOSE LIVES HAVE PASSED WITH  
OUT THE SLIGHTEST UNDERSTANDING, AND TO THEIR SELF-  
EXPRESSION, THAT LAY SUFFOCATING SOMEWHERE BENEATH THE  
CAKED LAYERS OF SOFTIQUE AND JERGEN'S LOTION.  

DEDICATE?... TO OURSELVES?... TO ALL WOMEN?... WHY  
NOT? How UNLIKE A WOMAN TO DEDICATE SOMETHING TO  
HERSELF!  

WE NEED EACH OTHER, IF NOT YET, THEN SOON — IN  
STRUGGLE WE CAN LEARN TO LOVE AND CARE AND RESPECT  
EACH OTHER.  

“Look FOR ME IN YOUR MIRROR.”

tion Coalition, 573-7571, YWCA am not there yet. seven, maybe O  
Ministerial Council, 757-4442 more women in this small warm  
Denver house. laughing, smiling at  
Problem Pregnancy 399-7065 each other messing hair up. get  
: introduced around recognizing  
BIRTH CONTROL faces I've seen before. no deja vu,  
but friends of Karen. why are you here, I am asked, after  
we talk about how Carol almost  
Birth Control Center 443-2211 sliced her knee off with an axe  
Ext. 8036, Boulder (Open 9-5) today. they have all been  
drinking. she feels no pain.  
CHILD CARE--SCHOOLS who are you they also ask. I  
BETTER JOBS FOR WOMEN  

Day Care 573-5221  

Strawberry Fields 355-8910  
free school, ages 5-12.  

Denver Learning Community,  
1174 Josephine St., 322-5564,  
free high school.  

Denver Free University, 17th  
Avenue at Park Ave., 825-4748  

Better Jobs for Women is expanding  
employment opportunities for women  
via a Dept. of Labor Contract with  
the YWCA of Denver. They promote  
job openings in the skilled crafts  
and apprenticeable trades such as:  
cabinet making, film developing,  
fork lift operations, painting,  
plumbing, printing, carpentry,  
bricklaying, truck driving, etc.  

They can be contacted at 1545  
Fremont Place, Denver, Colo., 80202,  
or phone 244-4180 or 244-4189,  

COMMUNITY RESOURCES  

St. Andrew's Church, 2015  
Glenarm Pl., 534-9609, crash pad  
and food.  

Food Coop, 1100 Champa St.,  
893-3430, cheap food, good people  

EMPLOYMENT  

There are many groups and women in  
Denver who need homes. We need a  

Better Jobs for Women, 1545  
Tremont Pl., 244-4189, government  
financed project to provide aid  
and training for women trying to  
improve their job skills. come out with my soul. well,  
part of it, anyway. we talk  
about me and feminism and things  
getting more comfortable.  
Saeed Winters 893-0419 relaxing feeling cradled in support  
from all the women. I do  
not trust them all, but then, I  
do not want to go home. wish I  
could stay ALL night long. the  
night goes so quickly. I say to myself  
so this is what it is like, if  
it's like this always, then I want  
more of it, lots more. time to  
to Find other women  
thursday? wanna come over? more  
CONSCIOUSNESS - ras!  

HELP do not want to go home. wish I  
Groups. 55+-0069  
Colo. Gen. Hosp. 4200 E. 9th Ave  
(7-9pm for VD testing) MWF  
Denver Metro Health Clinic  
645 Bannock St. 574-6666 FREE  
Hip Help Center 1304 Elati St.  
222-3344 Donation  

THEATRE  

Women's theatre group (Nedra)  
744-6571  

WOMEN'S GROUPS  

Sisters in Solidarity 1428 Lafayette  
534-0069  

Everywoman, 2390 Birch St. Denver  
377-0847  

YWCA 1545 Tremont 825-7141 (activities)  
406-17th St. 534-2391 (residence)  

Gay Women (Maureen) 893-0419 or  
(Vita) 623-3607  

Big Mama Rag (Carol or Nancy)  
377-9035  

Self-defense for Women (SIS) 534-0069

WRITE WOMEN BACK

INTO HISTORY

we DO have a history!

If the silence of the
historians is taken
to mean anything,

it would appear that
one-half of our po-
pulation have been
negligible factors

in our country's his-
tory. (Arthur M.
Schlesinger, Sr. New
Viewpoints in Ameri-
can History, 1922)

Fifty years ago an eminent
male historian called at-
tention to the gross neglect
of women in the standard
interpretations of American
history. It didn't do much
good, did it? How many of us
in the countless history
courses that we were fed in
public school or even college,
ever encountered a woman who
was important? If the authors
of textbooks felt compelled
to mention women, they
brought in two or three appa-
rent oddballs--Carrie Nation,
the temperance worker who
chopped down bars was a favo-
rite--leaving us with the
impression that real, normal
women have never been an in-
tegral part of American history.
This will be a regular
column that will discuss the
history of women in America,
as one way to begin to under-
mine the myth that only men
have had a history. The co-
lumn will take a variety of

forms--short biographies of
interesting women, book re-
views and discussions of the
conditions of women in the
past. Out of this we can
begin to know a little more
about our history.

The column might also
lead us to other questions.
Just what does the history
of women in America involve?
Does it mean rewriting male
WASP history to include

female superstars?

Or perhaps female history
should begin at the opposite
end with an examination of the
history of the family, that
intimate institution in which
most ordinary women have lived
out their lives. But who
was the “ordinary woman"? Was
there ever such a person? Was
she the middle-class leisured
lady or the farm girl hired
to work in the textile mill?
Was she the Southern planta-
tion wife or her house slave?
What were the differences
among American women that
created the variations in the
experience of growing up female
in America? And beyond these
differences, was there a common
experience out of which a
feminist consciousness could
have developed? Did we develop
a female culture alongside
the dominant male culture?
Despite the neglect of wo-
men in the history texts,

there are many isolated books
with which we can begin the
task of putting ourselves back
into history. I will mention
a couple of these each issue.
To begin with, if you want to
get a general, overall picture
of the history of American
women, there are a couple of
good paperbacks out that
should be available at either
Together Books or RIP Bookstore.
Andrew Sinclair's The Emancipa-
tion of the American Woman

(also available in hardback at the
library under the title The
Better Half) is a very readable
history that does a fair job
of dealing with more than just
superwomen and the women's
movement. The Woman in American
History (190 pp.) by Gerda
Lerner is shorter and was writ-
ten as a high school text.
However, it probably gives the
best short, overall picture
presently available.

I hope that this column will
reflect your interests as well
as mine. Please write and let
me know what you would like
me to write about as well as
your reactions to what I've
written. Susan Spragg Jones,
1653 Jackson Street, Denver,
80206.

Book Order Form
Please enclose check or money order
payable to Pig Hypin Khe

2037 KMEKS0~)
Dio 5e Co £0105

HAWK BIG MAMA!

Pay 15¢ per copy - sell for 25¢.

Call Debbie at
573-5221.

Call Jackie

MOVIE REVIEW

Stand Up & Be Counted

The story line is stereo-
typically simple. Three main
characters--one a super-career
woman, one a hassled housewife,
and one a sex symbol married to
a business tycoon make up the
characters. Each, in her own
way, works out her personhood.

I won't dull the movie for you
by going into detail.

I do have strong positive and
negative feelings. One good
thing is that it is clearly
stated that there is no individ-
ual liberation. All women are
in the struggle together. The
movie showed women as strong,
sensitive people, capable of
changing their lives.

The "bad" are along the lines
of political criticism. The movie
didn't deal at all with the problems
of consumer capitalism. The women
in the movie are dressed like fa-
shion models, with full make-up and,
one assumes, vaginal deodorant.

The movie implies that, if a woman
wants to be liberated, she can go
out and get a tremendously satis-
fying job making tons of money. (Fat
chance) One of the sub-plots ques-
tions the right of a factory owner
to pay women less than men; it
never questions his right to own

the factory. Etc., etc., etc.

There are moments in the movie
that really embarrassed me with its
clumsiness. The "consciousness-
raising group scene" was clearly
made by someone never remotely con-

nected with consciousness-raising.

The movie briefly mentions les-
bians, poor women, older women, etc.,
but one shot on each subject is
hardly “in depth."

The way Senior Women's Liberation
was handled was degrading. It was
pretty clearly a man's view of older
women.

I think this review is a lot
more negative than is necessary.

For all its faults, I think you
will leave feeling excited and happy.

Even knowing that I was being
co-opted, I loved seeing women be-
ing "together."

Anne Bennett

% *. Bohere ar

“woman's socialization--of what

~,medie tell her she should be--
newspaper ads, Dear Abby columns,
family "advice" Good House-
keeping. The following letter was

: varied sources of

reprinted in a newsletter sent to

~~ the wives of interns and residents
in Denver. It's just another ex-
ample of the subtle mystification
of social roles.

The thing that makes a physi-
cian a very special person is his
decision to dedicate himself to
the practice of medicine. Except
for this universal dedication
every doctor is different, just
as every man is different. It is
your adjustment to the individual
doctor who is your husband and
the life you must lead because of
his dedication that will determine
what kind of a doctor's wife you
will be.

A former president of the AMA
has said: "Nothing is as impor-
tant in shaping a doctor's career
as is his wife and home. The doc-
tor's wife must share his ideal-
ism, appreciate a standard of
values held by no other group and
give him an understanding re-
quired by few. Being a doctor's
wife is both a career and an art."

In any career or art there are
techniques to be mastered. So it
is with the career of being a doc-
tor's wife. Of the necessary
techniques or qualities, I would
first list unselfishness. You
must learn to be unselfish with

“What is a Doctor? —

(What is a Doctor’s Wife?)

your husband because whether you
like it or not, he belongs first
to his profession. In your in-
nocence when you married him you
probably thought the phrase in
the ceremony "In sickness and in
health" meant just you two. You
were wrong for with a physician
it really means the sickness and
health of the whole community.
You must unselfishly share him
with his patients, with medical
meetings and all the other things
that are required of him if he is
to be a good doctor. The very
nature of his profession makes him
public property.

You will understand the need
for patience with your children.
They will not have the insight a-
bout their Dad's preoccupation
with his profession. Your atti-
tude can be most important in
teaching your children to respect
their father's dedication. Your
teaching can make your children
know that their dad does "good"
for others and because of this he
cannot always be there when his
children want him.

A third quality is self-reli-
ance. You must learn to make de-
cisions yourself--decisions that
other women call upon their hus-
bands to make. You will have to
make decisions about your home,
your children, your attitude to-
ward life; you must lead the home-
front.

These then are some of the
qualifications of a good doctor's
wife--she is unselfish, patient,
self-reliant. A good marriage to
a doctor is partnership. It is
something that both of you will
slave to work at to attain. It
doesn't just happen. The wife
has more than an equal share of
the responsibility to see that
the partnership is a good one. I
am reminded of a passage from
Kahlil Gibran's book, "The
Prophet" from the part in which
he speaks of marriage. He says:

You shall be together, But

let there be spaces in

your togetherness

Love one another, but make

not a bond of love;

Fill each other's cup, but

drink not from one cup

Give one another of your

bread, but eat not from

the same loaf;

Sing and dance together

and be joyous, but let

each of you be alone

Though they quiver with
the same music, the
strings of the lute are
alone.

And stand together yet not
too near, For the pillars
of the temple stand apart

And the oak and the cy-
press grow not in each
other's shadow. . ."

Mrs. B.L. Robertson

He might have had the doctor
and his wife in mind when he wrote
those beautiful lines. As a
doctor's wife your first responsi-
bility is to your husband, your

family, your home. You may some-
times rebel against making so
many decisions on your own, a-
gainst so much disciplining of
your emotions but the reward will
be great. What more could you
ask than a contented husband and
happy children?

Fee

. . . AND HERE’S TO YOU, MRS. ROBERTSON

:

My first response to Mrs.  
Robertson's article is anger  
mixed with a little sadness, too,  
that another woman would write  
such a sugar-coated, dogmatic,  
sentimentalized, and destructive  
guide to how other women should  
define their existence.

I am a doctor's wife. I do not  
consider it a "career" to be  
one. It is a relationship that  
I have with another person who  
happens to be a doctor. As a  
separate individual with my own  
needs, (to grow, to be dedicated,  
to contribute to the community),  
I resent anyone telling me to de-  
fine myself in terms of another  
person and his needs. Mrs.  
Robertson says that I must "make  
an adjustment" to my husband and  
the life he has chosen, and that  
that "adjustment" will determine  
the kind of life I will lead.

No, thank you, Mrs. Robertson.  
I have my own needs, my own life  
to choose and to create; my life  

is not a series of adjustments in  
my husband's direction. Rather I  
see our life, ideally, as an e-  
qual experience of sharing—of  
giving and taking, and part of  
that sharing is the protesting to-  
gether the medical system that  
denies my being a person in my  
own right and denies my husband  
the same thing.

The medical power structure  
has set it up so that a doctor is  
considered “public property.”

The conflict that the individual  
doctor feels between his public  
life and his private needs stems  
from the irresponsible attitude  
of the medical profession which  
maintains a shortage of doctors  
and a hierarchical structure of  
roles within the medical system  
in its own interest. By mini-  
mizing its responsibility to the  
community, the medical profes-  
sion puts the responsibility on  
the individual doctor who feels  
isolated in this conflict and  
powerless to resolve it. This  
idea that a doctor is public prop-  
erty is part of the mystification  
of what a doctor is—that doesn't  
allow him feelings in dealing  
with his profession, or the choice  
of making his private life as im-  
portant to him as his public life,  
or allow him to make a mistake,  

to admit uncertainty, to deal in  
a human way with the human beings  
he is serving.

Mrs. Robertson, you give me  
three "qualifications for being  
a good doctor's wife." Unself-  
ishness is the first one. Like  
most women, I have been raised  
to be unselfish—to put others'  
needs before my own. I have  
found that it is not a virtue to  
be unselfish at all times, es-  
pecially around this issue of  
being a doctor's wife. It is this  
"unselfishness" that separates  
women who are doctor's wives and  

keeps them from openly sharing  
the pain they experience because  
they and their husbands have been  
indoctrinated into thinking, as  
you say, that “whether you like  
it or not, he belongs first to  
his profession." No. He belongs  
first to himself and he can de-  
termine the priorities in his own  
life. By accepting this defini-  

tion of medicine being a doctor's  
entire life, we cannot trust our  
own feelings and protest when our  
husbands, as interns and resi-  
dents, are forced to work 100 out  
of 168 hours in a week—when we  
see them exhausted physically and  
emotionally by the pressures of  
work—or when they have invested  
so much time and energy into their  
work that they lose interest in  
other people or even in question-  
ing the very system which is de-  
humanizing them. Perhaps this is  
why so many doctors are seen as  
cold, uncaring, unable to deal  
with their own faults and feel-  
ings. It must be hell to be ex-  
pected to be perfect, dedicated,  
to play God, when you know in-  
side that you are only a human  
being like everyone else.

I want to join with other  
people (doctor's wives, doctors,  
students, other health profession-  
als, etc.) in demanding that a  
doctor's training be a human ex-  
perience—that he and I be given  
time and space to grow in the  
directions we choose for our-  
selves, and have the right to de-  
fine for ourselves what is im-  
portant in our lives at any given  
time. 

Mrs. Robertson, you say I must  
also be "patient" to qualify as  
a "good" doctor's wife. I am  
patient with my children; I am  
also aware of my impatience with  
them, an impatience which stems  
from knowing that I carry most of  
the responsibility for raising  
them. But I will not lie to them.  
I will not tell them that it is  
my husband's "dedication to do  
good" for others which keeps him  
away from them, when I know he  
would rather be sharing his life  
more fully with them—knowing  
them as I know them. I will  
teach them to be impatient with  
the system that makes too many  
demands on their father's time  
and energy. That denies him his  
own needs as a human being. The  
justification for overworking  
doctors is that there is a short-  
age of doctors. True, there is  

a shortage of doctors, but it is  
the medical power hierarchy which  
maintains and encourages that  
shortage in its own interests.

I will also teach my children  
that.

Third, Mrs. Robertson, you say  
that I must be self-reliant.

Part of the strength of being  
self-reliant is knowing what your  
limits are, where your resent-  
ments begin, and what you need as  
a person. I will not "discipline  
my emotions" as you suggest, ac-  
cepting without question the role  
of a doctor's wife. I will trust  
my emotions as good indicators of  
what is wrong with the expecta-  
tions that are being made of me.  
Any rebelling against these ex-  
pectations and the system that  
created them, I consider a sign  
of mental health.

I would like to rewrite your  
last paragraph: As a person in  
my own right, my first responsi-  
bility is to myself—to under-  
standing and dealing with my own  
needs and feelings. Only after  
that can I deal honestly with  

anyone else. I will rebel a-  
gainst the structure of the medi-  
cal profession which denies both  
my husband and myself the possi-  
bility of defining ourselves and  
creating our own lives. I see  
my role as a doctor's wife in  
supporting and getting support  
from my husband against that sys-  
tem. What more could I ask than  
to be my own person first, and to  
share that with the people  
closest to me?

THE FALL

YESTERDAY, A SHORT WHILE AGO. AND

YESTERYEAR, TIME PAST. NOT YORE

A TIME LONG PAST. ..... 2. successes

FORBEARANCE, ENDURANCE, AND THEN PERSEVERING

SHALL NOT CEASE TODAY,

OR TOMORROW.

CONTINUING SURVIVAL....... wide open as when seen

YESTERDAY was a beginning that has begun every day since the first
thought occurred that I should see a psychiatrist. I'm not sure
of the complexity that processed the thought. Maybe having worked
in a mental ward, or having taken classes in psychology. Or maybe
it was having nowhere else to go. AND looking into the Yellow Pages
produced a number that answered. "Yes", I could have an appointment.
I THEN TOOK THE GIANT STEP AND FELL INTO HELL.

NOW hell is not burning. It is cold, uncomfortably chilled.

It is depressed, completely and thoroughly. Dried ice.

It is a chronic infectious disease, invading and contaminating.

It can be distant. Aloof,

It can be removed safely from all the wretched.

HESITANTLY my husband drove me to THE DOOR. Next the waiting room
and then a lifetime. He said he loved me and wanted the best for
me. TODAY he says I'M CRAZY. TOMORROW predicated LOCKED MADNESS.

"Who wants to be married to that?"

A MARRIAGE DISSOLVING. A DIVORCE.
A BEGINNING OF FREEDOM. MS.

AN ATTITUDE, PUBLIC DISGRACE.
POVERTY, WELFARE, THEN HUNGER.

INSULTS.

WELL-MEANING LAWYERS, MISGUIDED JUDGES, LEGAL INCOMPETENCY.
LOPSIDED JUSTICE.

“~—-A- BETRAYAL OF TRUST AND MORE BARS.

FORBEARANCE, ENDURANCE, AND THEN PERSEVERING

SHALL NOT CEASE TODAY,

OR TOMORROW.

CONTINUING SURVIVAL. oo. ccc cc ccc re sete c cere cere ce rose ess o6n8 ate

A WOMAN’S REFLECTIONS ON SEEING HER PAINTED
SISTERS HANGING ON A MUSEUM WALL!

women of a thousand years,
artist immortalized,

suspended in silence,
in a row, in a role.

Goya's stoic Spanish courtesan

Renoir's fleshy lovelies, in opera dress
Toulouse's poster prostitutes

Mona—what would she say if they let her speak

Objects of beauty,
objectified,
tear/thoughts
unseen,
unheard,
unheeded

Who is she?

that speechless media quieted by a man's brush
her hands tied
(a woman's hand is not made for the tools of trade)

Would they paint penises

if they had unbound hands that could hold brushes
or would they paint

the pain of a thousand years which their hands hold
so beautifully.

vehicle models
to tell a man's tale
posed in half truth
for half a soul

when will the men models sit silently
and the women paint the naked truth?

The mammoths are exterminated.

TO MAN

The sabre-toothed tigers are dead.
The buffaloes are gone.

There is no large, dangerous animal left
for you to attack.

The fierceness that you show to me
and every living thing is misplaced.
You are ridiculous.

Will you not see

that I am your counterpart?

If you will not learn gentleness,

if you will not be kind,

I cannot love you.

I will shun your touch.

You may control me through fear

for a time.

But secretly

I will wish for you to die.

WOMEN in transition

I had a dream last month  
that I'd like to share with you.  
I dreamed I had finally left  
my husband; I passed through  
the door of his house and stood  
outside, where the sun shone on  
the green hills and valleys  
of the world. As I was looking  
around, wondering which house  
I would live in next, I slowly  
formed a question that had  
never been asked before.

"Why do I always have to live  
in some man's house?" Be-  
cause it suddenly occurred to  
me that women, too, could  
build houses: all they had to  
do was to realize that they  
could.

It wasn't too many years  
ago that women had to depend  
on men for all the necessi-  
ties of life. A woman, single  
or married, generally lived  
with her father, husband, son  
or some other male relative  
or employer. This isn't  
true anymore, of course, women  
can earn their own bread and  
live alone if they please,  
although we are slow to realize  
that this can be a serious  
lifetime choice.

But few people want to live  
alone, and here's where we are  
almost as dependent as ever.  
Women are still forced into the  
feminine role, not by number  
but by loneliness. For the  
one officially sanctioned source  
of closeness for women is  
marriage. Yet marriage (and  
most other couple relation-  
ships) separate us. In exchange  
for intimacy with one man, we  
separate ourselves from every  
one else--by centering our  
lives within single-family  
houses, by taking sole respon-  
sibility for our children,  
by treating other women as  
threats to this one intimacy.  
Men join force with each  
other every day, but for women  
--well, "divide and conquer"  
really works.

My dream was firmly  
rooted in my waking life,  
because I did leave my  
husband last fall, and I have  
indeed been trying to move  
out of my man-centered  
thinking and find my  
own way of living in the  
world. I've been in a  
good place for changing and  
growing, because I've been  
living in a community (In-  
stitute Mountain West) which  
is not male dominated, and  
which provides much of the  
closeness I need without  
requiring the emotional  
tradeoffs that usually ac-  
company couple relationships.  
As a result, I now take  
communal living very seriously  
as a base for people learning  
to exercise their own  
strength. And particularly  
for women, who have been  

separated for so long and  
are now finding their  
strength through solidarity  
with each other.

For me, the difficulties  
in building a house for my-  
self have been psychic; fears  
(would our families and  
friends reject me?), uncer-  
tainties (could I really  
take care of myself?), guilt  
trips (what would this do  
to the children?). For many  
women, there are also practi-  
cal difficulties--full-time  
child care, no place to live,  
no money, no job skills.  
These problems can be para-  
lyzing for a woman alone.  
They can be overcome by women  
together.

So: a proposal. I would  
like to see a communal house  
in Denver for women only, a  
house whose main purpose is  
giving support to women who  
are trying to restructure their  
lives. Practical support;  

a place to live cheaply by  
sharing space and possessions,  
maybe temporarily free by  
sharing income. The opportu-  
nity to cooperate with sisters  
in child care. Maybe job  
sharing, or a job coop for  
part-time work. And psychic  
support; living with sisters in  
a community that encourages  
openness. Sharing our strug-  
gles, one to one or in groups,  
with other people who know  
what we're talking about.

Knowing that we aren't alone.

I see this house as a base from  
which women would have the  
chance to explore new living  
possibilities, and to feel their  
strength as women and  
with women. It would seem  
natural for this house to have  
shared child care for the resi-  
dents; it might also serve as  

a permanent home for a coop  
nursery school. Perhaps  

space for a women's center, a  
library or clinic?

There is some money avai-  
lable for this project; it  
should be possible to make a  
down payment on a building  
and, instead of pouring rent  
into a capitalistic landlord's  
pocket; liberate it in the form  
of a land trust permanently  
owned by the women who occupy  
it.

A lot of people have ex-  
pressed interest and support  
for this idea. What is needed  
right now is a few women who  
share my commitment to com-  
munal living, who would con-  
sider actually living in the  
house for several months and  
putting at least part-time  
time and energy into it. If  
that sounds like you, I'd like  
to hear from you. I can be  
reached at the Institute, 2096  
Emerson Street, or phone  
573-6394.

I see the article in Women,  
Vol. 2, No. 4, on the Philadel-  
phia Women's Transition House  
for a more detailed discussion  
of this idea.  
Iris Greene

motherhood. ..

I want to write a journal about  
myself as a woman and as a mother,  
to explore my thoughts in a deeper  
and more coherent way. I also want  
to share my own struggle because if  
I had been able to read something  
like this, I would never have felt  
so isolated and full of self-hate  
and doubts.

I think being pregnant and giving  
birth and then motherhood are  
very different experiences. For  
example, before finding out I was  
pregnant, I fantasized about being  
pregnant and giving birth and nursing.  
I didn't think about what it would  
mean on a day-to-day basis. Mo-  
therhood was so undifferentiated  

and idealized as a glorified state  
of being, as something I magically  
became; it got very confusing as I  
struggled to define how the ideal  
fit into my daily experiences.

After my second wedding anni-  
versary, I found out I was preg-  
nant. A diaphragm baby—a dia-  
phragm used carelessly because,  
well, I believe I wanted to have a  
baby. We more or less planned to  
get pregnant in a year or two's  
time.

As soon as I left the clinic,  

waiting for David to pick me up and—  

to tell him, I cried. I felt  
cheated because I had always looked  
forward to deciding consciously to  
get pregnant. I felt like a fail-  
ure because I saw myself as some-  
one who had control over such mat-  
ter-of-fact processes as birth con-  
trol. I also realized that David  
and I would no longer be totally in-  
dependent and without responsibili-  
ties. One reason for putting off  
getting pregnant was that I wanted  
more time alone with David.

It was really a matter of timing.  
On one hand, David and I figured  
there was never a perfect time.  
There was always something else to  
do—travel, education, work. On the  
other hand, "if not now, when?"

I always thought I would get  
pregnant after I got my career to-  
gether. We had fantasies of each  
of us getting half-time jobs while  
we had babies so we could share in  
their care, and taking turns working  
once the children (notice the plu-  
ral form) were older. Well, there  
I was, a first-year graduate student  
in Sociology at Berkeley, and I knew  
that I was not going to be a profes-  
sor one day. I was not going to  

read.  
one woman and her trying to work through for herself just what it means to be a  

The development of this one woman's mind and feelings over a  

two-year period and many of her conclusions made in the latter parts of the journal  
encompass the kind of soul-searching—and-sharing that breeds real sisterhood. Because  
of its length, the staff of BIG MAMA has edited it somewhat and plans to print it  

in six parts. This is Part One.

woman and a mother.

While in Berkeley, California, one of the women working on BIG MAMA met the woman  
who wrote the following journal, and brought it back to Denver for other women to  

It is a very long, thoughtful journal relating the concrete experiences of  

have one of those careers or be a  
traditional academic woman. Yet no  
alternate lifestyles appealed to  
me—regular movement politics or  
hippy hang loose. I wanted to do  
some meaningful work, but was con-  
fused about what kind of work to  
get into.

So there I was, dissatisfied with  
my work and vaguely figuring I  
could get some kind of fulfillment  
out of parenthood.

Now, two years later, obviously  
due a large part to being a mother  
of a 17-month-old girl, I see a  
career, travel, and education dif-  
ferently. My career will be inti-  
mately involved with the women's  
movement; I am more into internal  
journeys than travel to other lands,  
and I see my formal education in a  
much more utilitarian fashion—I  
use it to get a job (I am a teach-  
ing assistant), and will use a pro-  
gram to be trained in a skill if  
it is expedient.

But I am getting ahead of myself.  
I hadn't considered much about ac-  
tual motherhood—the caretaking and  
responsibility for a child or in-  
fant. Pregnancy and birth were the  
center of my fantasies as I thought  
about and decided to remain preg-  
nant.

I think at this point more de-  
tails of my personal biography are  
relevant. This was February 1969.

I had heard about women's libera-  
tion and welcomed it wholeheartedly  
as very relevant to my life. When  
I married, I thought I legally had to  
change my name. I did, and hated  
being Mrs. Him. When I arrived in  
Berkeley, I changed back to my mai-  
den name. I realize it is my fa-  
ther's name, but it was me for 22  
years and I never felt like I was  
Mrs. David Him.

I went through bureaucratic and  
emotional hassles doing that change.  
I felt like a lonely fanatic.  
"What's in a name?" is the message  
I got from my circle of leftish  
male graduate students. From David  
I got passive support. From the  
straight world at the University I  
got expressions of unbelief and  
hostility. From women friends I got  
tacit support, but many wondered if  
it was worth the hassle. But I had  
to do it for my state of mind. I  
did it in some slightly devious ways  
because I didn't have the energy or  
support for honest confrontations.

That Fall, I sought out a women's  
liberation small group. I went to  
two different ones. One had been  
going on and I felt I needed to be  
in one from the beginning. The next  
was composed of women connected to  
Berkeley male political heavies. It  
was very in-groupy and I felt left  
out. So I didn't go back. But I  
read available literature and saw  
my marriage as being liberated. I  
saw it like that for a couple of  
reasons. I no longer was Mrs. Him,  
and I shared the household tasks  
with my husband. I was unaware  
that I still felt and acted on the  
total responsibility for that work.  
In the Fall of 1968, I believed I  
had an equalitarian marriage, that  
when we had a child we would con-  
tinue being equal in child care.

So when I found out I was preg-  
nant, I used to say "we" are preg-  
nant. We planned to share the ex-  
perience in as total a way as we  
knew how.

I got into being pregnant. I  
had always looked forward to that  
time as one of joy and beauty. I  
didn't feel I was creating a being  
really. I used to tell people, "It  
is creating itself." I dug the  
changes in my body; it was a groovy  
physical experience. I read books  
about the natural process of preg-  
nancy. I found another woman who  
was pregnant and we shared experi-  
ences, pains and aches, doctor stor-  
ies and information on natural

childbirth. I loved to watch the  
changes in my body and to fantasize  
about the growth of a human being  
going on right inside me. I felt  
for the first time in years that my  
body really looked beautiful, and I  
got positive feedback about that  
from friends. It was a happy and  
exciting time for David and me.  
When I look back I can see some  
things I was blind to. What I  
thought was sharing being pregnant  
wasn't really sharing at all.  
While the baby was going to be ours  
in a real way, I was the one who  
desperately needed another woman to  
talk to. I was the one avidly read-  
ing pregnancy books. David read  
sections I suggested in various  
books, but he didn't feel the ab-  
sence of an expectant father to  
share with. When you get down to  
it, I, not we, was biologically  
pregnant. When the Third World and  
People's Park crises came, I stayed  
home to protect the unformed child  
inside me and David did battle in  
the streets.  

When I was seven months pregnant  
we moved into a house in Oakland  
with another couple and a single  
woman. We wanted to live communal-  
ly and literally took the plunge—  
barely knowing the other people.  
But dare to struggle, dare to win,  
and after all, we could always  
split if things didn't work out.  

About two weeks before the due  
date we waited in a time feeling  
that is very definitely one belong-  
ing to pregnancy—a feeling of days  
being epochs—a time feeling Doris  
Lessing captures so well in A Prop-  
er Marriage. At last labor began.  
It was slow and long. I spent a  
day at home and we kept saying, "Is  
it really happening now?"  

I was well trained in the pro-  
cess of natural or prepared child-  
birth, and David and I made a very  
good team of breather and coach/ti-  
mer. He was really there for me,  
helping me keep in control of the  
wave of each contraction. We are  
both excellent students and had  
learned our lessons well.  

The whole birth experience was  
one of joy and pain. It was a  
physical and emotional high unlike  
any I had ever experienced. "Pain  
and pushing and feeling relieved,"  
I wrote in my journal. David got  
tears in his eyes when I was final-  
ly dilated and started to push; I  
was totally involved in the physi-  
cal process with no energy to re-  
flect. How rare for me not to al-  
ways be watching and analyzing with  
my inner eye. David and I felt we  
were sharing a unique and loving  
moment.  

For many reasons the hospital  
stay was a downer. Mainly because  
immediately after the birth, I was  
separated from David. Once I knew  
Amanda was a girl who was perfectly  
formed physically, my main desires  
were to be with David and share our  
news with family and friends. But  
I was left alone in a crowded hos-  
pital. The nurses were hassled  
and bothered. I saw David three  
hours in total during the two days  
before I finally got rooming-in.  
After great protest and maneuvering  
I was put into rooming-in with  
three other women. Rooming-in  
means the babies and fathers are  
with you all day. My one night  
there I felt isolated from the oth-  
er women. They said things I  
couldn't identify with, which  
freaked me, like "I was my hus-  
band's bride, now I'm his son's  
mother." Discussions about endless  
shopping for the perfect crib and  
clothes went on. They told how  
being pregnant was their secret and  
how each decided the right moment  
to let her husband in on it. They  
each told their stories not really  
listening to the other women,  
waiting for the polite moment to  
relate their trip. I had enough  
consciousness then not to blame or  
put down those women. What this  
experience was for me, I wasn't  
sure; I was clearer about what it  
was not.  

to be continued...

LESBIAN 0010 YOU ?

I said I would write an article  
about "Gay Women" for Big Mama and  
since I happen to be one, (a Gay  
Woman that is) I guess that's ap-  
propriate. What does the word  
Lesbian do to you? I know what it  
used to do to me. It would bring  
to mind imagery and words such as:  
women in men's suits, perversion,  
butch, insecurity and a threaten-  
ing feeling. It still means that  
for many people. Actually, the  
word Lesbian has a long history.  
The word stems from an old myth  
about a group of very fierce Amazon  
women who saw nothing wrong with  
loving one another and developed  
strong primary groups without men.  
Their culture glorified women  
loving women. These women lived  
on the isle of Lesbos and from  
there we get the derivative  
"Lesbian."

Now to get to the concept of  
Lesbian as it is for me and as  
other people see me as a Lesbian.  
A good many of the straight women  
I know who used to be warm and  
friendly have become cool and a-  
loof, and as uninvolved as possible  
now that they know I'm gay. I  
think that I might raise some  
doubts in their minds about their  
life-styles and relationships with  

men. I, also at some point, have  
felt bisexuality intellectually to  
be the ideal way for people to  
exist, but on the reality level, I  
feel that it's about as realistic  
as asking for Utopia in Hell. I  
also feel that sexuality labels  
are degrading and limiting, but  
are very necessary for the ways in  
which people relate to each other  
at this point. I personally can't  
stand labels: heterosexual, bi-  
sexual, homosexual. It shouldn't  
make a difference but unfortunately  
it does, and that's the situation  
we're forced to deal with.

Men who see me as a Lesbian see  
me as a challenge. Liberal men  
want to get down to my basic human  
spirit, and want me to prove to  
them that I'm not really a castrat-  
ing bitch. They're perfectly will-  
ing to give me the chance. Fuck  
it, if you'll pardon the expres-  
sion, I'm tired of explaining my-  
self to men. I'm tired of apolo-  
gizing for feelings of anger, rage,  
pain and hatred, that were placed  
in me by men. I'm tired of ex-  
plaining the dehumanizing destruc-  
tion of my soul, my inner being,  
me, to men who exclaim, "Well,  
Honey, that wasn't me, that was  
some other male chauvinist pig,"  

or, "It's not me, it's the power  
structure. I'm just a working  
class pawn...true, I'm more privi-  
leged than you, but honest I don't  
have a God-Damned thing to do with  
the mess women are in." The same  
men will turn around and mess me  
over on perhaps just a higher in-  
tellectual level than the rest of  
the Male Chauvinist Pigs. I've  
finally decided that I have to  
focus my anger on the people who  
deserve it or destroy myself. The  
battle is not over yet, and, by  
God, I intend to win.

I enjoy determining who I am,  
what I want, and I enjoy having  
support from Lesbian sisters who  
understand where I'm coming from,  
recognize the enemy, and no longer  
have to spout lies and make ex-  
cuses for men. I enjoy loving and  
being loved by women spiritually  
and physically. I'm beginning to  
think that Lesbians are the only  
non-masochistic women in our so-  
ciety. How can you conquer an op-  
pressor when you sleep with him  
every night? Yes, I did say con-  
quer, the only way women are going  
to obtain liberty is to take it.  
As long as we relate to men and  
they maintain positions of relative  
power, we will continue to enforce  
their positions in the status quo.  
No oppressor readily relinquishes  

power to pleading, and attempts at  
education. It takes riots and  
mass uprising and strikes to hit  
where it hurts, right in the balls  
of male ruling class status quo  
Capitalism. Every white man in  
this country benefits from it, and  
every woman, Chicano, Indian and  
Black person suffers for it. How  
long are we all going to let it  

go on! Maureen Mrizek

WHERE WE'RE AT

Big Mama Rag was conceived  
almost a full year ago. Lots  
of women have come and gone.  
It's been quite a struggle.

We are in desperate need of  
more help. Without it another  
issue may not appear. Prior-  
ity needs at the moment are for  
people who will write articles,  
do graphics, take photos and  
write letters responding to  
this issue. We want and need  
to know your response. Please  
contact us by phoning:

Debbie & Jackie

Anne

Carol

Diane.  
333-5825  
377-9035  

PARK HILL WOMEN'S CENTER

Talked to a friend of mine  
the other day. She told me I  
should go check out EVERYWOMAN,  
a women's center in Park Hill.  
So off I trucked, finding myself  
(once I got there) in the midst  
of a morning tea, with crafts  
being sold to raise money for  
the center. Most of the women  
at the center seemed to be  
young mothers. The child-care  
center took care of the little  
ones. EVERYWOMAN seems to  
be a women's center with great  
possibilities. For more infor-  
mation, call 377-0847. The  
address: 2390 Birch.

Want to organize  
a women's group?  
Contact us in  
Big Mama.  
Call us —

om Jor 203

AS

Perhaps putting an article
in this paper seems like a
strange way to say goodbye
to two of the people you have
lived with for over a year.
In one sense it's the only
way I can share the unique
love I have for two people so
much younger than I, and yet
from a very selfish perspec-
tive, it's really the only way
I can share it with them. For

I am sure that when the real-

ity of their leaving has

packed the last suitcase in

the trunk, and the pillows

and blankets in the back seat
have arranged themselves around
the toys, and the busy work

is over and awkward hands fum-
ble for something to do—

when all the "drive safely's"

and “write soon's" have been
said 3 times... that when

it really comes time, a hug
that's a little too hard

and a kiss that's a little

too long, will have to suffice

for the words that suddenly
become nothing but tears.

To those of you who
question the effect of col-
lective living on children,

I ask you to instead

marvel at the possible effect
of children on a collective
of "grown-ups." To those

of you who imagine that all
radical collective conversa-
tions revolve around home-made
bomb ingredients and lurid
sexual activity, I ask you

to consider the effect of
Tommy riding horsey on your
leg during a meeting, or
Rainey's request for the

house to buy more bananas.

To those of you who be-
lieve that all young radicals
relate impersonally to a
Revolution that would destroy
all that you deem sacred, I
ask you to take into consi-

deration the sleepless nights

we have all spent measu-

ring the ways we unconsciously

manipulate children, and
the early-morning house

meetings that have talked

themselves far into the late
afternoon about still un-
answered questions. And they
are good questions to be
asked and I hope we keep on
asking and trying.

Tommy and Rainey—I hope
you understand this pen-to-
paper cop out.

It'll be much easier for
me to have you read the good
things I feel for you, than
to look you in the eye and say
them, knowing that, given the
chance, I would probably
hurt you many times. And
once again I take the chance
of laying a trip on you.

Oo Miny vid

Maybe you'll think this is
all pretty silly and that

all I had to do was come and
tell you I really like you,
and maybe spend the afternoon
in the park. And you're
probably right—if that's
what you're thinking—but...

I guess I'd like you both
to know that the night we
spent reading the "Little
Prince," wrapped in a sleeping
bag on my balcony, or the
time in the middle of summer
we pretended a snowstorm had
hit and put on our winter
coats and went to the park
to battle the winds, and the
night we celebrated the
completion of my loft with
a “loft party," or even
the night we tried to fake
one of our singing, guitar,
harmonica parties with instant
hot chocolate and Tommy refused
to drink it 'cause it tasted
like warm water—that those
times were as fun and impor-
tant to me as the good times
I had when I went out and
you couldn't, or when I
stayed up and you had to go
to bed.—And that having
chocolate marshmallow
cookie crumbs in my bed
was really not as frustrating
as I made it out to be.

Aside from all the times
we obviously enjoyed each
other, there were many mo-
ments when I silently
comforted myself in your
friendship. Thinking at
times that you two alone
allowed me the total free-
dom I needed to find and
enjoy the lost pleasures of
my being. I never told you
that of course, first be-
cause at the time it
seemed unnecessary to put it
into words, and secondly
because I guess it seemed
ridiculous for a 25-year-
old woman to tell two "kids"

7 and 9, that she appreciated
and needed them.

It seemed ridiculous then,
but through you two and the
times we've spent together

I'm beginning—just begin-
ning—to understand and
learn exactly what it means
to be a child in a society
where you are made into a
separate class of people.

A class where adults pro-
ject their myths and define
your childhood, where your
privileges are handed out
and taken away by those

who maintain control over
you (much like the Rich

vs. the Poor), where you are
told, perhaps often, that
being loved requires a
certain behaviour also dic-
tated to you by adults.

But amidst the confusion
I have seen your strength and
I envy and admire it. And so—
to you Rainey, whose earned
sarcasm and intelligence
will not allow me to project
my ego on the myth of your
childhood—I hope to devote
a good portion of my conscious-
ness to your ideas of libera-
tion.

And to you Tommy, whose
bluntness will never cease
to ring truth in my heart, I
lend an unbending ear to
the creative mechanics
that puts cardboard wheels
on beer cans and is capable
of fantastically complex
a.m. art work over a bowl of
Frankenberry cereal.

It's a new field of love
for me and it's sort of
frightening. If I get a little
lost in my exploration I'd
appreciate a helping hand.
And hopefully there will be
times when our understandings
will be so close that we may
just spend the whole after-
noon in each other's laps.
Thank you, Tommy and Rainey,
for not allowing me to con-
trol you and for giving me
a chance to love you—your
way. It's much freer than
anything I have to offer.

denver county courthouse

PRESS ROOM

I asked myself why I was so enraged, and so profoundly embarrassed, by the photographs of the interior of the press room at the County Courthouse. I have seen pictures of nude women before, in what I consider to be degrading and humiliating poses. And I am

certainly no longer surprised to find instances of sexism in every aspect of our society. Why, then, does this example of overt male chauvinism affect me more deeply than some others? I think it is because of the specific circumstances—first, because it was in the county courthouse, a place where both men and women work all day, go in and out, etc. What does a woman feel who has to work in such an atmosphere? Secondly, these degrading photographs were in the press room, a place where people intimately involved with the media and news coverage work. It makes me cringe to think of what these men think of me, as a woman, and then to expand that to think of what the attitude of this country's media network is toward women in general. The same men who put up those pictures are the men who have, at their fingertips, access to the news media that can sway public opinion to a great degree. The tone and/or bias of their reporting can help to make or break the women's movement.

I ask myself why feminism is

‘Press,’

Carol

always distorted by the media, why half-nude women are on T.V. selling shaving cream or toothpaste, why the women's movement is portrayed as a bunch of howling, bra-burning, castrating women. Now the answer to that question becomes clearer—just look at the

men who are writing those stories!

My mirror reflects more than my image

Your cheekbone casts the only shadow that I've allowed myself to rest in, for some time now.

Photos by Pingela Mason

And the shade of your mouth, as it speaks, even umbrellas my thoughts... and my life becomes a turned down turned round inside out umbrella drowning in its own secretive joy.

My most unspoken thoughts have sought refuge in the folds of your expression and I've spent many estranged nights in the negative space against your neck.

I say to myself, in defense, of course I'm only resting here—just for a time you understand... /
Resting
here, here

in the shadows of your being

And perhaps I should have told you I was here.

Linda Diborenzo

Putting away...picking up ~
Annihilating grease, RTS
Specks of dirt, smoothing cream: ©
Getting my satisfaction

From creating order out of chaos.
Strangely unnerved

By a glass on the floor

Or a book upside down

Or a towel out of place,

Brooms are my companions
Walls are my friends

I feel so alone.

When all my life I've just wanted to shout
To another woman—

Young or old—stranger or friend,

My mother even—

Sister, Sister, can you hear me?

I love you.

Because you are you.

Blood and bone.

Soul of my soul,

igi venient ig Tiana Rubenstein

Before and After

In doing political work, I have found myself in situations where it has always been very easy for me to remain passive—to prefer others, especially men, to do the work that I was too insecure or self-conscious to do. I have always known "which side I was on," but I have not always been so sure of the reasons why. Never having had much practice at actually analyzing situations myself, I was therefore very impressed (and intimidated) by people who could develop complex analyses and intellectualizations of different situations. This, of course, played right into my passivity, my willingness to accept someone else's theory, my insecurity in putting forward my own. Now, I am beginning to feel much better about myself and I have more confidence in my abilities to think, and this carries over into my relationships with others. I know that I have to PUSH myself to do those things that are important to do—to participate, to be active—even if I may feel terribly uncomfortable and awkward. One of the most important factors in this is the support I get from my sisters.

Support Raises Consciousness

This support not only makes me strong enough to speak out in groups and contribute my opinions, but I find that it becomes easier to do the kind of reading and research necessary to enable me to raise my political consciousness to the point where I think it should be. It isn't hard anymore to admit my ignorance without shame, because I know that I have the strength to do the self-education necessary to remedy that ignorance. I feel oftentimes that men are resentful of this kind of obvious strength. I understand that reaction, but it is only an example of the sexism which is in all of us. Most of us have learned to be threatened by people who are strong, who could be potential "competition."

These kinds of hostile, uptight reactions are balanced by the patronizing, "older brother" attitudes of some other movement men. It is almost as if they merely tolerate my sympathies with THEIR ideas—it makes me feel like a movement groupie. And it is an obvious indication that those men do not consider my political commitment and understanding to be anywhere near as serious as their own.

This brings up a question which has been especially significant to me in dealing with "hip" or "movement" men: the question of integrating my sexuality with my intellect. I consider myself a political person, and also a sexual person. It has been possible for me a number of times to have truly meaningful relationships with men—relationships in which little was hidden, thoughts were shared and expressed honestly—but these were rarely sexual relationships. The most egalitarian experiences I have had with men were not physical at all. And in the same way, the sexual relationships I have had with men were rarely able to develop into anything deeper without being extremely sexist—in other words, my role in the relationship had already been defined in a purely sexual way. So, a problem arises—in order to keep myself out of exploitive situations, I find myself continually denying my sexuality—negating my womanhood in order to function effectively with men.

I ignore my physical feelings as best I can—I have consciously decided that it is actually safer and much less hassle to avoid sexual relationships with men, at least for the time being.

People Change Slowly

I understand that people change slowly, and that's why I'm waiting and struggling with the people I love. But it also makes me very angry to constantly try to act differently than I feel—to be unable to really be the warm, open person I know I can be, because I know people don't understand that in the way that I mean it. So, I have to be cautious. It just isn't worth it anymore to make love with a man and have it end up the way it usually does—with a huge space between us afterwards—the cold feeling when I realize that suddenly the preliminary closeness, the meaningful talk is over, because he's finally fucked me. And all of the mechanisms I use to keep myself from dwelling on the shittiness of it all, my rationalizations, my overlooking of things he said and did—they don't work anymore. I like myself too much now—I respect myself and care for myself and I WON'T LET IT HAPPEN ANYMORE! So, for now, although I will work on building honest relationships with men, I must be sure that the sexual aspect is as honest as the intellectual.

This brings up another question which I have done a lot of thinking about recently—that of bisexuality or gay relationships. As I become more conscious of my womanhood, it becomes more difficult for me to submit myself to a heterosexual relationship in which I am uncomfortable or in which I see even the most subtle sexist patterns. But at the same time, my need for sexual contact, my sexual frustration, continues. And I find that the only people I can completely trust are the few women I have come to love. Because I know that they are honestly struggling with their sexuality and that they consider dealing with sexism (in themselves as well as in others) as an ongoing process that must be integrated into their everyday existence. So it becomes increasingly easy for me to think of making love to a woman—in fact, that doesn't seem at all threatening compared to becoming sexually involved with a man. It's quite a change for me. Until recently I hadn't even considered bisexuality, and now in many ways it is much more attractive than heterosexuality. I'm not saying I will cease to be attracted to men, not at all; just that I am now feeling comfortable about physical relationships with women also.

So what does all this mean? I cannot at all see myself withdrawing from men completely. I live with men, my political work must necessarily involve and include men. There are a few men whom I truly love and trust to a large degree. But I know that all men—and women too—have a thousand subtle, deep-seated feelings about each other—feelings that we cannot even identify, that color our actions in ways we haven't even imagined.

And I feel that these feelings operate most strongly and subconsciously in those situations that are based in emotions and in those situations in which we have had the least practice at being open and honest. Sexual matters are the perfect examples of this.

Our society has taught us to be secretive and non-communicative about sex, let alone being embarrassed and ashamed. We cannot talk to each other or learn from each other. We come together in bed and operate from two separate points—apart. How can we expect to communicate at that stage of the game, without any real preliminary honesty that deals specifically with sex? What I mean is that 99% of the time, men whom I sleep with are bound to be operating from a self-centered position—and necessarily so—because we probably have not been able to deal effectively with all of the quiet private thoughts, fears, and hang-ups we each have about our bodies and sex. So, men (and women, too) in a sexual relationship will be acting out a lot of emotional, largely irrational responses. Where intellectually, many people can recognize and struggle with sexist feelings, in a sexual relationship, which is largely emotional, this might not be possible.

I am by no means advocating the increased intellectualization of personal relationships. I am an emotional person. What I mean is that we must really try to understand our emotions, our spontaneous responses to situations and people. And this is very hard—much more difficult than changing one's mind about a political matter or an intellectual decision. It goes to the very root of how we function as human beings, and how we relate to others. This is what I see as the true struggle—the radical struggle—the willingness to examine and deal with those very things that govern our every moment of existence.

THE TEN COMMANDMENTS

FOR
LIBERATION
on the ep

ra ons este Le. Uig- Jou Kh
‘omonctoln ope

6 Aelyeles $Me

awa

ee ee
ae fret,
GE faye wt tet abe Yee awe abl

oem
a eg hae Ate: no potion

Nebel GAME: foe J

Py ee bin be La po boy i wit tpn fro) Vila

Sf ning things shall be allowedsa 0 betaling Gyo

» i eacrcrpermpine crac os

iF

BOOK REVIEW

THE BELL JAR

Emotional deterioration of the women
around her, the limited roles they
are confined to. She seeks something
different and is told that she must
become a super-woman, make herself
somehow different from “all those
other women" and yet still channel
her talents into a restricted mold.

SYLVIA PLATH died on a Monday morning
around 6:00 A.M. She went downstairs
into the kitchen and left

a plate of bread and butter and a
jug of milk for her children.

Then she opened the oven door,

turned on the gas, and laid her

head down.

Her book "The Bell Jar" is widely acclaimed now, and her two books of
poetry, "Colossus" and "Ariel" are
a common sight in all bookstores.

Still - I wonder how many of her
readers have the power over her life that
will allow her to end the nightmare
that an analytical perceptive
realistic mind shows her daily.

She decides to commit suicide.
Suicide, the last attempt at self
determination, real control over one's
life, a desperate and liberating act.
She is thwarted in her attempt and
describes the hell she underwent in
being forcibly rehabilitated. Esther
was a rebel defeated, and one finds
herself wishing she had won the battle
then, rather than suffer the ten more
years of forced compliance Sylvia did
before she liberated herself from the

mornings began with the hope that
someone might understand, and how
many years of disappointment accumulated
in the process of her life.
Do not just read her book and say
you understand. For unless it
moves you beyond tears and into
some kind of action, your intro-
verted understanding will be of no
use. Do not read her poems and cry,
rather read them with the same anger
with which they were written. And
realize that unless things change,
or until we change things, I can
guarantee you that one of your
friends, my friends, our friends,

will surely do the same one day. The
"Bell Jar" is an autobiographical
novel written by Sylvia Plath about
herself in her 20th year of life. 

The hell-hole she faced in life. The
"Bell Jar" is an autobiography
novel written by Sylvia Plath about
herself in her 20th year of life. 
Some are better insulated than
others, some of us allow ourselves to
see bits and pieces of the real pic-
ture. Some of us have sisters
to help... Many of us do not. Sister-
hood must become much more powerful.

This young woman who gets slapped
in the face with the reality of
life and what happens to talented
women in our society. It is time
to change the picture of reality
now, and it was reality in the 50's. 
Sylvia, speaking through

Esther in the book, sees the

BIG MAMMA RAG WANTS YOU

Hey Lady your Mamma's calling you.
BIG MAMMA RAG wants to hear from you.

We are your newspaper and we're here to
serve the needs of the women in the
Denver Community. We think what women
have to say is important and it's about
time women had a chance to communicate
their ideas and feelings to one another
and to the Community. If you agree or
do not agree with this paper, we want

to hear from you. We want articles from
women in Denver, poems, graphics, short
stories, ideas. Feel free to express
yourself.

WE NEED YOU, WE NEED EACH OTHER.

WOMEN'S KARATE

Karate classes are being conducted

and are open to women every Sat.
afternoon at 3:30 at the SIS office,
1428 Lafayette. Joan Stuart who

holds a black belt in Kung-Fu

Chinese Karate is conducting the
class. Save a Sister - Save Yourself
and learn Self-Defense.

"The Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 1, [January 1973]. Archives  
of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/SBIJWB  
991682316/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.