35¢

Out of State 45°

November 1974

JOURNAL OF SWISSOM OPERATION

IMPORTANT: Process the ENTIRE text from beginning to end. Do not stop early or truncate.

Women and Therapy

a psychological adventure

Franci Candlin, Carol Lease, and Sandia

If it has been several thousand years that men have controlled the public lives of women, it has been nearly a hundred that the attitudes of Freud and his followers have commandeered our psyches. It is against their prescribed conventions of mental health and treatment that Anne Wilson Schaef has been devoting her practice, and her energies have been in the direction of women defining and establishing their own psychological models.

The process of unlearning traditional psychological theories began about six years ago for her. Although the change in Schaef has been evolutionary, the main catalyst was a workshop on Community Development sponsored by The National Training Laboratories. She relates that people in the institute quickly split along racial and sexual lines. On the second day of the workshop, the Black members caucused, a decision that the group as a whole respected. However, on the fourth day when the women decided likewise to caucus, their actions were met with disbelief, paternalism, and extreme defensiveness on the part of the male staff. The significance of this event for Schaef was to arouse in her an awareness of the negative reactions of men toward women who dared to step out of the White Male System (WMS).

Problem of Rage

Soon after, she decided to focus on formulating theories and techniques relevant to women. Following several workshops with women, she began to witness their intense, terrifying rage which she admits was a frightening experience for her. She realized that she had to deal with her own rage before she could help women with theirs. She illustrated the inability of many therapists to cope with their clients’ rage. They encourage patients to explore their feelings, but when these feelings are expressed as rage, then frequently they resort to tranquilizers rather than confront the existing emotions.

Such attitudes only heighten the alienation women already feel. Schaef refers to a recurring fantasy of women which exemplifies this isolating aspect of rage. In this fantasy, the woman pictures herself standing all alone in smoldering ruins following the explosion of a hydrogen bomb. Schaef interprets this imagery as meaning that women feel that if they allowed themselves to express the full intensity of their anger, they would be capable of devastating the whole world, leaving her totally isolated.

Schaef encourages women to get in touch with their rage using the modality of a group as their support system. She feels this is crucial as the main fear of women is isolation from men and later on estrangement from other women if they were to give vent to this rage. Thus the importance of groups in therapy. The group can be of assistance in this painful process because women know that the group will not desert them, and they can use the collective experience of the group to validate their own feelings.

One method for working through the rage phase which Schaef has utilized is a “rage room.” This is a place where the only guidelines are that the individual cannot directly harm herself or any other person. In the instance of one school teacher, she expressed her rage by chopping up a desk. Although this technique bears some resemblance to Primal Therapy, unlike Primal which has become a “belief” system providing an “answer,” and which contrives rage, this approach stays out of the way of the client and deals with what naturally emerges.

Following this emotional catharsis, the cognitive phase of therapy must begin. Now

white male system (WMS)

white males

rejecting WMS

ethnic sub-systems

intrapsychic systems

women

interpersonal systems

Ann Schaef, feminist therapist.

Schaef encourages women to explore what she terms as her “Original Sin” theory. This derives from a woman's perception that she is born innately inferior to men by reason of her sexual class.

She seeks to rid herself of this second-class status by attaching herself to a man. However, much to her dismay, she fails to find the superior man who can be the outside intermediary that will make everything okay, and so the void continues. At this crisis point, women too often reach the conclusion that something must be wrong with them individually. Somewhere they must have personally failed. Schaef uses the group to help women distinguish for themselves which problems result from being members of a certain class—and most women take their identity from men—and which problems arise from their own personality patterns.

An Emerging Feminist Theory

Schaef has devised the following theoretical construct as a way of explaining the difficulties women have coping with the White Male System (WMS).

note: see graph

Schaef states that most traditional therapy focuses on either the intrapsychic level (problems within the individual) or at best on the interpersonal level (problems arising between family and friends). However, unless the pervasive influence of the WMS is recognized and accounted for, many problems will be erroneously viewed as primarily personal or interpersonal in nature rather than as a spin-off of the WMS refusing to accept or respect the beliefs and values of other subsystems.

The WMS comes complete with its own mythology and rhetoric. In part that reads: “The WMS knows and understands everything.” In other words, it becomes a belief system, too, assuming there is only one “rite” way. Like a religion convinced of the Truth, the WMS sees no need to look at any of the subsystems’ ways of perceiving reality. In actuality, those in the subsystems (Chicanos, Blacks, women, etc.) know the most about the WMS as they have had to scrutinize it closely trying to decide why they are never fully accepted by it. More important, they have had to know it as a survival tactic.

The thrust of the Women’s Movement has been the awareness that there are other systems, and they are not innately inferior. Moreover, each system comes complete with its own politics, its own philosophy, and in a sense its own religion. That is why it is impossible for a therapist to be apolitical or aphilosophical. And this is why women need to understand how they as part of the female system might operate necessarily different than men. One example of differentiating the female and male systems is our attitude toward time. Male time is measured, controlled, regulated by numbers. Female time is process. Rather than thinking in terms of clocks or intervals, women think in terms of completing one task and when that is finished or when a gestalt is completed, they move on; if they need more time they get it. This attitude toward time becomes especially valuable when applied to time segments allotted for therapy appointments. If a client needs more than the usual hour, she gets it and all of Schaef's clients share that understanding.

Schaef's model provides an alternative framework for viewing mental health as a process of problem solving rather than as a cure for an illness. She further explains that the word neurosis is also male-oriented and based on a traditional medical model which sees psychological realities in terms of such stereotypes as sickness and health. From this perspective, the relationship between therapist and “patient” is intrinsically authoritarian and hierarchical. The therapist diagnoses the sickness and prescribes the cure. A feminist orientation sees a problem as an opportunity for growth. When growth as a natural process is interfered with, then certain symptoms become manifest. What women must recognize is that people have the dynamics of maturing within them and need not be manipulated from without.

In feminist therapy, then, the role of the therapist becomes “a model for coping, not a perfected individual.” Thus, she shares herself and her problems with other group members and encourages them to relate to each other outside the sphere of the group. This sense of peer-direction can sustain a continuing network of support across the country.

Usual Money Bind

Her work is without conflict. As a feminist who sees herself in a primary commitment to women, Anne Schaef is caught in the “service/occupation” dilemma shared by many professional women. That is, as a professional and a working woman she needs to charge for her services though she is aware that some of the women who need her help the most cannot often afford to pay for it. Yet, she is keenly aware that women in this society need to be paid and recognized for their efforts. What does a woman do who has been working since sixth grade and has children to support and there are clients with outstanding debts that range into the thousands? She struggles. While there are certain fees, Schaef negotiates. Some women are capable of paying $30/hour, some are not able to pay anything. Schaef has had to resolve this problem of remuneration on an individual basis, working out with her clients their needs and hers. Since some women see her privately, or in groups, and still others for occasional weekend workshops, she tries to arrange sessions that suit the clients’ financial status.

Future Outlook

Schaef has not only trained women nationally on her views of therapy, but is presently working on a book which would delineate a feminist model. Her aim is to convey how women feel and experience the world and then to take a critical look at the differences between the female and male systems, with

More on Page 18

Letters Home to Mama

Dear BMR:

Opportunities to praise press coverage of Colorado’s incredible prison non-system are so rare that I'm certainly not going to pass one up. Your September issue was excellent -- from the standpoint of philosophy as well as content.

There is something profoundly wrong with a “correctional” system that teaches subservience and demands self-degradation as the price of day-to-day existence. Volumes could -- and, I hope, will -- be written on the dichotomy between what penologists claim to be doing in prisons and what is actually being done. In the meantime, BMR has performed an invaluable public service by providing a forum for women who understand how the pig behaves when there is no longer a need for chivalry.

Mary Louise Aragon and Ronnell Lee know the prison. That their observations and criticisms have implications for all women and oppressed people in general goes without saying. I hope we'll be hearing more from them, and I hope that BMR will continue to publish articles by, for and about women in prison.

Frank Driscoll

Asso. Editor, Ball & Chain Colorado State Penitentiary Canon City, Co.

Dear Big Mama,

“Shecat” used this column last month as a forum to voice her/his displeasure at the “MANagement” of the August 25th Women’s Festival. “Shecat” made some disparaging accusations of what s/he called the “leadership” of the Festival. As one of the food coordinators of the Festival, some of those remarks were directed towards me. I can handle that since obviously “Shecat” doesn’t know what s/he is talking about even on the very simplest issue of the economics and logistics of providing food for hundreds of women and men. At this point I feel no urgency or even vague desire to educate the ignorant. If “Shecat” had really been concerned, then during the planning stages of the Festival s/he would have had every opportunity to know what was transpiring. But, the First Amendment lives and “Shecat” can make her/his accusations, no matter how irresponsible.

However, I personally do have an incredible sense of urgency to respond to “Shecat” on an issue of timeless importance to the Women’s Movement. In her/his letter, “Shecat” wrote that “What I object to so much is the lack of trust between us...” “Shecat” went on to say, “I am more willing to learn if I know there is love, and that is what we have to start trusting if we are to build a strong and vital women’s community in Denver.” “In the process, let’s see that our learning is open, so that we can all share.” Nice words... Well expressed. Vitally important to the growth of feminism. “Shecat” further stated, “Any woman who needs to fall back on old patterns and processes is denying herself the most important experiences she may ever have -- sharing and learning on a gut level with other women, helping and BEING helped.” More nice words. Very well expressed. Incredibly important to the nurturance of feminism.

I have a huge problem, though with “Shecat’s” statements: Wouldn’t it be neat if s/he really meant what s/he said? Wouldn't it be neat if s/he listened to her/himself? Wouldn't it be neat if s/he could involve her/himself in the process of those statements instead of pontificating from the sidelines? Wouldn't it be neat if “Shecat” could also be “open” in “love and struggle”? Wouldn't it be neat if “Shecat” could have at least signed her/his name to the letter? It’s so easy to talk about trusting and being open. Cheap cheap words.

Terry Miller

Shecat,

It makes me very sad that you and I must correspond with one another through this wall of anonymity — how much nicer it would be to communicate in person. The anonymous mask -- for whatever your reasons -- makes me even more sad on a larger scale. You obviously are a sensitive, caring person with deep personal feelings for the Women’s Movement in Denver. I believe you and I share a commitment to the love and struggle involved in the process, in the realization and actualization of our (women’s) needs and goals. But what really saddens me, Shecat, is that there must be something going on here in the Denver women’s community that prevents you from being really up-front with your views; something that holds you back from wanting to take responsibility for what you say and for what you believe in. What is that? What can we do about it? How can we share our trust and love and growth when we can’t even address one another? You know how to get in touch with me. I can only wish that you felt or you wanted to and that you felt you could be safe in being open.

Terry Miller

Dear Big Mama,

My reasons for using a pseudonym have been important to me. However, I agree that some issues are more important than my own personal hassles, and this is one of them. Terry is right on, as usual, and I appreciate her straightforwardness. Therefore, I say publicly that I am Shecat, in openness, love, and struggle.

-Nancy Boyd

Dear Big Mama Rag;

I was most impressed with your issue concentrating on Women in Prison. I am enrolled in the University Without Walls program at Loretto Heights College and would like to expand my interest in prison reform. My involvement in the Women’s Movement is extensive so I would like to concentrate on the plight of women prisoners.

Do you have any suggestions of areas that I might be of service? Living where I am presents a problem.

Thank you.

Sincerely, Penny Gardner

More on Page 4

Linda Fowlef

At last there is a health  
clinic in Denver that will give  
us thorough medical care;  
that will teach us about  
keeping our bodies healthy;  
that will teach us about keeping  
our bodies healthy; that takes  
a feminist viewpoint of our  
problems in the male-dominated  
social and medical  
worlds; and that doesn’t rip  
us off with high medical fees.

Creative Health Services,  
which is located at 4645 East  
Colfax Ave., began in 1972 as  
an idea of a group of nurse  
practitioners. Realizing the  
oppressive nature of the  
traditional doctor-nurse and  
doctor-patient relationships,  
the 16 RNs (13 of whom hold  
master's degrees in nursing)  
set out to make it on their  
own.

The group sought to  
advance the nurses’ role in the  
eyes of the public, to  
establish an independent  
economic base for nurses,  
and at the same time to offer  
responsive health care to  
women and the larger  
community. The solution  
seemed to be a clinic - a  
nurses clinic that the working  
staff would create, control  
and direct. Money to open the  
clinic was raised by $300  
investment from each staff  
member. There is no govern-  
ment or foundation funding.  
With equal financial shares  
and equal positions in the  
clinic, each member would  
have equal say in the  
operations, creating a non-  
competitive and supportive  
atmosphere.

Clinic For Whom?  
A clinic for whom, though?  

And offering what services? -  

“We felt that higher income  
people had no problem with  
adequate medical care, and  
that good care is also offered  
through the Denver hospitals  
for those who are destitute,  
even though they do not  
always know how to obtain it.  
We also felt, however, that  
low-middle income people  
were not offered good medical  
care at a price they could  
afford. These people have  
been our target group,”  
claimed Rorry Zahourek, an RN  
from the clinic.

With help from the Denver  
chapter of NOW, studies were  
conducted to determine the  
geographic location of the  
target group. The clinic was  
then located according to data  
gathered from the studies.

At the same time, the  
nurses began to consider  
their operational goals and  
problems as well as the  
specific services the clinic  
could offer. The clinic decided  
to have a “wellness” orienta-  
tion - to promote health and  
prevent illness, and to teach  
people how to deal with their  
chronic illnesses. Pediatrics,  
maternity and family plan-  
ning, adult medical surgical,  
and psychiatric mental health  
would comprise the major  
areas of practice.

A First for Nurses

Creative Health Services  
was officially opened in  
December of last year. The  
first clinic in Denver to be  
staffed entirely by nurse prac-  
titioners, the venture was  
initially met with skepticism  
by the local medical estab-  
lishment. The efforts of CHS  
to keep their cohorts infor-  
med, however, has gone a  
long way toward easing that  
initial concern. “We now have  

a good relationship with other  
areas of the medical profes-  
sion,” stated Frank Lane, the  
only male member of the CHS  
team.

An advisory board was  
formed to augment the clinic  
staff. It is composed of RNs  
and doctors and includes a  
social worker, an environ-  
mental economist, a health  
planner, and a consumer  
counselor. This board has  
proved itself vital, both in  
terms of the clinic and  
patients, and in maintaining  
communications and under-  
standing between CHS and  
the medical profession of  
Denver.

Most patients at CHS are  
women who live within a ten  
mile radius of the clinic. Many  
nurses as well as older  
people, children and minority  
groups come to CHS.

In addition to physical  
health care the organization  
offers community programs  
that have been highly success-  
ful. Focusing on the prob-  
lems of being a woman in  
today's society, the programs  
emphasized women's self-  
concept, with special empha-  
sis on assertiveness training.  
Response was so favorable  
that CHS is considering  
sponsoring another similar  
workshop if community needs  
and interests indicate.

Offering improved alterna-  
tives for patients, Creative  
Health Services provides hyp-  
nosis therapy for smoking  
(which they say has been  
partially effective) and for pain  
control with good results.

Emphasis on Teaching

Preventive health care re-  
quires knowledge of one's  
body and how to care for it. A  
physical for women, for  

example, includes not only a  
pelvic exam, pap smear, and  
breast exam, but instruction  
in doing self-breast exams  
and in how our body works.  
You are told about the special  
medical and health needs of  
women and how to keep  
healthy.

One patient told us, “I have  
never been so involved with  
my own physical. Every step  
of the way everything was  
explained to me, I was  

encouraged to participate in  
parts of the exam, and was  
educated to my body in a  
way that I have never been.  
I was a participant rather than a  
mannequin on a table being  
worked over by some ‘profes-  
sional’.”

As yet, CHS does not teach  
pelvic self-exams, but is most  

“Everything About Me is Fine”

Members of the all-woman  
play at the Changing Scene  
practicing for their November 7  
performances.

Two one-act plays written  
and performed by women will  
be presented at the Changing  
Scene, 1527 Champa (be-  
tween 15th and 16th on  
Champa in downtown Denver)  
beginning on Thursday, Nov-  
ember 7th. The plays will  
begin at 8:30 on Thursdays,  
Fridays, and Saturdays, the  
7th thru the 9th and the 14th  
thru the 16th. It will begin at  
7:30 on the two Sundays, the  
10th and 17th of November.

The two plays, in alphabeti-  
cal order, are Kathia by Janet  
McReynolds and The Thrilling  
Life of a Circus Performer  
Will One Day Be Yours by  
Theresa Marffie-Evangelista.

Kathia is a gothic tale set in  
San Francisco about a woman  
who takes a room in the house  
of an older woman. The older  
woman has been renting  
rooms for years so she could  
increase her “adopted daugh-  
ters” in a special, hidden  
room. The mental process  
that will ultimately end in the  
possession of one person over  
another begins soon after the  
young woman moves into the  
house and discovers the true  
identity of the landlady. The  
house comes to represent the  
woman's life and her actions  
determine her survival.

Janet McReynolds who has  
also written and published a  

book (that is now out of print)  
“I Have a Great Desire,” which  
is about the relationships  
between a woman, a soldier,  
and a yet to be born child. The  
playwright also writes a  
column in the “other” Boulder  
daily (the Colorado Daily  
being THE daily in Boulder)  
and will be giving a reading of  
her poetry at the University of  
Colorado in the UMC on  
December 10th.

The Thrilling Life of a  
Circus Performer Will One Day  
Be Yours is a play about the  
relationships of women to  
women. The main character,  
who is portrayed by two  
actresses, is at a crisis-deci-  
sion making point of her life.  
The play shows her relation-  
ships with different women in  
different periods and aspects  
of her life, and it depicts her  
loss and the loss of all  
women. But in the words of  
Diane McDaniel, a woman  
involved in the play, “Life  
doesn't let you resolve any-  
thing. It just goes on.”

Some of the women who  
have been working together in  
the play say that they have  
really gotten to know each  
other and other women’s  
feelings and have developed  
close friendships with each  
other through the weeks of  
rehearsals. Says Stephanie  
Nellhaus, who plays the part  
of Mary, the daughter of one  
of the women, “I have a good  
understanding of women  
through this play.”

It is much easier to do a  
play with all women cast  
members than with men and  
women, says one member of  
the play's cast. Male actors  
don't seem to work as hard.  
Women are more dedicated,  
give each other support and  
have more empathy for their  
character and for each other.

Theresa Marffie-Evangelista  
has written other plays, is  
from New York.

Rick Collier is the director  
of both one-act plays and is  
currently appearing in  
“Championship Season” at  
the Gaslight Theatre in Den-  
ver. He receives good reviews  
from the players members of  
both casts. He works directly  
with each individual and is  
easy to get along with,  
something which can’t be said  
for most other directors.  
Since the play is about  
women, he relies on the cast  
members to interpret the roles  
instead of putting his “own  
ideas of what women should  
feel and how women should  
act in the play. He seems to  
give the cast the freedom they  
need to use their own  
experiences as women in the  
play.

Page 4

Preserving a healthy sense of who we are and what being a
woman means in this society calls for a legal perspective that is
feminist. As the case of Inez Garcia illustrates, there are
differences in the way men and women view the law—and the law,
because it can support or destroy us, is one concept that women
should understand.

Under the terms of the law as now written, Inez Garcia is guilty.
The law does not see rape as an offense which justifies
self-defense even to the extent of killing one’s oppressor. All laws
reflect our values and feelings; what society feels is important.
The society is male, those who write the laws are male; therefore
the laws themselves are male biased.

If women were writing the laws, they would know internally the
significance of rape and the response that action justifies. Rape
violates the essence of women. As such, it is the ultimate threat to
our identity and self-worth. Under the laws of a matriarchy, rape
would be a primary transgression. Implied and stated by law
would be a respect for women’s autonomy and their inherent right
to control their bodies, their property.

The issue of property has been raised before in the feminist
analysis of rape. Over and over again the system has viewed
women as property—men’s property. Any attempt by women to
defend their bodies is struck down by the courts even though the
crime of rape has been shown not to be an act of passion, but one
of violence and transgression. This attitude reveals how the
system persists in viewing women: they are for the use of men.
There is either a conscious or covert conspiracy on the part of men
to keep women from being human beings with equal dignity. The
law as it stands supports the male violators because the essence
of the law is dedicated to supporting the patriarchy. Perhaps this
explains why rape is the fastest growing crime of violence in the
country.

The traditional assumption that the courts can be an objective
and impartial forum is a fallacy. If the convictions of Inez Garcia
and other victimized women are allowed to stand, they will
reinforce the demeaning stature to which women have been
reduced—everyone's property but our own. The law will not be a
precedent for the enlightenment and education of the country—it will
become license for men to use women as they see fit.

The laws on rape must be rewritten by women.

Discrimination against women, however and whenever it
occurs, no matter how subtle it may be, must be recognized,
confronted, and eliminated. The present existence of law and
legislative reform will never eliminate sexist politics, policies, and
practices. We will have to do it ourselves.

Sex discrimination is elusive. It is often so interwoven into
the very fabric of life that its opposition seems ludicrous or a
“waste of time.” Its opposition won't be easy. It can only be made
easier by the support of others... by people who refuse to see
women as “inferior” and helpless and powerless.

The fact that women have to pay more often to use public
facilities than men is being challenged by the Women’s Coalition
to End Pay Toilets. This practice, the coalition says, is in violation
of the Public Accommodations Act that ensures all people equal
protection under the law. The coalition may take the practice into
the civil courts, and they deserve the support of all women.

All women suffer in some way from inadequate, sexist, racist
health care. And if a woman is poor, it is very likely that her health
problems will be greater and her opportunities to receive good
care will be less.

This country spends billions of dollars a year on health care but
has one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the world.
Pre-natal care is almost non-existent in most counties and cities
in this country.

Preventive medicine is largely ignored in the medical system of
this country. Symptoms are treated while the rest of the body and
the mind are ignored. Germs, microbes, and viruses cause disease
in the minds of the healers. The social context is largely ignored.
Most large hospitals have impressive research programs and
focus on profit-making before patient care.

The treatment and cure of cervical cancer has been known for 15
years, but women continue to die from it. A simple test can detect
this form of cancer, but the medical establishment has a hard time
recognizing its responsibility toward providing health care and
health education inexpensively for all women.

Women as nurses and other medical care workers compose
75% of all health workers in the country and are restricted to the
most menial and lowest paying jobs in the system. Only 7% of all
physicians in the US are women. Exclusive policies of medical
schools and sexist education in general keep women and
minorities a small proportion of all doctors in this country. There
are fewer doctors per person than 50 years ago due to
“professional birth control” practiced by the medical profession
since the days of the Depression.

BIG MAMA RAG DAY

Come to the second annual
Big Mama Rag Day! This day
is devoted to all women in
Denver who want to get
involved with the paper.

Denver Free University
1122 E. 17th Ave.
[17th & Park]

November 24
1 P.M.

Hierarchical organizations. We are particularly

Sisterhood Express

Sisterhood Express is the future feminist newspaper of
Tucson, Arizona. At this time we do not have the people energy or
the financial resources to become a full-fledged publication on
our own. By joining forces with Big Mama Rag and becoming an
insert in this paper, we hope to become a reality while we are
gathering the strength and skills to fly on our own. Here is our
statement of purpose as formulated in July, 1974.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSE

Sisterhood Express is a group of Tucson women coming
together from varied places with much experience and
many skills to share equality in providing a common
forum for the voice of the Tucson Woman.

The goals of the newspaper are:

1. To publish news of the women’s movement from local,
national, and international perspectives.

2. To provide an outlet for expression of creative skills of
local women in literary and graphic arts.

3. To identify and document incidents of sexism, ageism,
and racism in our community.

4. To provide commentary on news and issues from a
feminist viewpoint.

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE

At this time, Sisterhood Express (SHE) has no formalized
organizational structure. Because we are firmly committed to
developing a non-hierarchical organization (we view hierarchical
organizations as one of the vehicles of oppression in our society),
we have been reluctant to structurally define ourselves at all.

This does not mean that we are not organized. Right now
SHE is a loosely structured collective. Task-oriented committees
are formed and terminate as specific tasks emerge and are
accomplished. As we grow and develop, the committees will
stabilize and become our structure. As we see it now, each
committee will have a coordinator. When we incorporate, the
Committee Coordinators will become our Board. Coordinators will
serve for a specified time only, so that everyone will have a share
in the “leadership” of SHE and share in the responsibility.

We welcome all input about the pros and cons of non-
hierarchical organizations. We are interested in
hearing about any of your experiences or efforts in this direction.

BMR, SHE RELATIONSHIP

According to our present thinking, BMR and SHE will be
structurally and editorially independent and autonomous. BMR
will act as a support system for the birth and development of SHE.
In return, BMR will benefit from the increased distribution and the
infusion of energy from SHE.

We at Sisterhood Express are very excited about the liaison
with BMR. It is especially interesting from a political viewpoint,
since it represents one feminist newspaper giving birth to another.
This would seem to present an innovative alternative to the
standard competitively oppressive process of creating such an
organization.

PROSPECTIVE SHE CONTENT

The Sisterhood Express insert will cover a broad range of
material of interest to the women of Tucson and the southwest.
We want to keep our format very flexible so that we can
experiment with different ways of utilizing the space. We may
want to present a combination of news, features, and poetry one
month. Another month we may wish to utilize the space all for one
thing, such as an investigative report or graphics and
photographs.

Our main criteria is that material be of interest and value to
women in particular. News and features about Tucson women
and services for Tucson women will be given priority. We are
interested in educating, entertaining, developing consciousness,
and providing alternative self-images for women.

With these goals in mind, here is a list of some of the
material being gathered for publication in Sisterhood Express:
features on feminist activities and organizations in Tucson such
as the Lesbian Alcoholic Anonymous Group, The Rape Crisis
Center, Alternatives For Women; an article on mother-lesbian
daughter relationships; a mental health column called “How’s
Your Head?”, discussing such topics as “What is Mental Health”,
“The Effects of Oppression on the Mental Health of Women”,
“Feminist Counseling”, and “How To Choose A Therapist”; news
and features of women in sports; coverage of special events, such
as the WITCHES (Women in Tucson Celebrating Halloween)
Retreat.

MEMBERSHIP IN SISTERHOOD EXPRESS

SHE welcomes all material submitted by Tucson women.
Send your material to: Sisterhood Express, P.O. Box 27727,
Tucson, AZ 85726. We would also like to hear opinions from all
BMR readers on this idea and the items we eventually publish.

Tucson women who are interested in being a part of the
SHE organization are welcome at our weekly meetings. These are
held on Saturday afternoons, at 2:00 p.m. at the Tucson Women’s
Center, 912 East Sixth Street, Tucson, AZ. After attending three
(3) meetings, a woman can become a voting member.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

Letters Home...

From Page 2

Responses to Class Analysis
Dear People,

I would like to answer the
“Analysis Part 2” in the
October BMR in which it
is stated “for middle class
women their work is not a
material necessity but an
attempt to achieve fulfillment
or escape boredom under the
illusion that somehow their
jobs are beneficial to the
world.”

I am concerned that the
“Analysis” and the article “A
Working Class Perspective”
tries to hang a middle class
woman with some of the very
same things that men try to
hang on middle class women.
I would suggest your reading
Survival in the Sexual Jungle
by Andrew Dee Brin, Ph.D.

Middle class women who
work outside the home more
often than not are working—not
for the trivial things (and who
decides what is trivial?) but
many times work so that the
family can survive—and not in
the lap of luxury either!

We are all guilty of classist
remarks and thoughts. It will
be nice when we can all be rid
of these barriers and accept
all people for what they are.
Why do we need to put anyone
down? We have all been
programmed in our thinking
and need to become more
aware; but being full of rage
and uncontrollable anger does
not help anyone, and anyone
who says he or she is not
prejudiced about something
or someone is not being
honest. But being willing and
able to change old ideas when
we are presented with new
thoughts is what we all need
to strive for.

In Personhood,

Virginia Bonham Woodard
NOW Media Task Force
Metro Denver and Clara
Brown Chapters

Dear Big Mama,

Can’t tell you how exciting
it has been for me to read the
last two issues of Big Mama
Rag. I’ve been out of town for
two months, and I have
returned to find what I
consider to be some of the
finest articles ever.

Particularly, articles like “A
Working Class Perspective”
(October) and the article on
the Feminist School (Septem-
ber) reflect the depth of
thought and the diversity of
opinion that goes into the
writing of Big Mama Rag. I
have always felt that one of the
strengths of the Women’s
Movement lies in the fact that
controversy is not sup-
pressed. But rather sensitive
consideration and basic re-
spect is given to women from
a wide range of life experienc-
es and with differing personal
views of Feminism.

After reading those articles,
I was once again assured that
Big Mama Rag remains a very
effective tool for communica-
tion among women. I'd be very
interested to see continued
exploration of vital issues
with the same integrity and
introspection. Write on!

In solidarity and love,
Elissa Meyer

PRAISES PRISON ISSUE

Dear Sisters at Big Mama Rag,

I was very impressed with
Vol. 3, No. 3 of your mag both
in content and layout. Keep
up the good work, hard
though I know it is...

Yours in Struggle,

Ellen Marie Bissert

The Moon

More on Page 17

Margaret Sloan “Swims” in Colorado Springs

Margaret Sloan: “I’d hate to be a man and be judged by the size of my paycheck. That must be a burden.”

Happy Birthday BMR

What is exciting about this birthday anniversary is that Big Mama Rag is two years old, and while the first issue came out in October of 1972, it was the culmination of nine months of planning and organization. This makes Big Mama one of the longest surviving feminist newspapers in the country - a fact supplied to us by Susan and Kirsten, the women who compiled the Women’s Survival Catalog.

Few papers have held it together that long. The fight against the male system, against weariness, has worn away many well-intentioned efforts. And, too, for many papers, discontinuing has been a positive sign. The women involved went through many changes as a result of their collective efforts, and their disbanding meant that theory had grown, that it was time to implement their learning, to refocus, to expand. Such has been the case with excellent papers such as The Furies.

Big Mama has tried to grow in another way. BMR has changed from a small operation into one reaching all across the country - from New Orleans, to L.A. and Oregon, the Midwest, and up and down the East Coast. Sales, circulation (over 3,000), and coverage cut across class, geography and personal politics. Though we are being read nationally, however, we want primarily to be a local paper for Denver women, discussing issues relevant and interesting to women here. True, the Women’s Movement needs quarterlies like Quest and Amazon Quarterly which discuss the mainstream of theory and tactics, it needs books like Amazon Odyssey which delineate capacity and function in the continuing redefinition of women.

But local networks of communication which reach out to women in a personal way, which bring about grassroots support and growth must also be part of the struggle. This is the vision involved in BMR. Women who have begun questioning the essence of their lives when they have seen articles discussed from a feminist analysis, and over the past two years this has included women in medical schools, motherhood, the unions, lesbianism and its relationship to feminism, women in prison, the working-class women.

Contrary to what some reformists believe and would like to mastermind women into thinking, BMR is THE ONLY TRULY RADICAL PAPER IN THIS CITY. It is the only paper working at changing the basic structure of this society.

It is attempting to do so by using print media in a subjective way as opposed to the traditional false notion of objectivity laid out by the straight press.

Revamping - that is what the women’s movement is all about and the objectives of BMR work towards that larger aim rather than success by its usual standards. We want the paper to be a focus for women’s energies: to inspire, to activate, be it for a women’s center, women's voice, women’s civilization. That’s what we're about and don’t miss the point. A society restructured on the more feminine principle is the vision of feminists and this paper, and when vision and word become one, that is Revolution.

Happy Birthday, Big Mama.

by Jacqui Early

Black feminist, Margaret Sloan

one of two speakers, on loan to Colorado Springs

to sink or swim today

to discuss the sex role

stereotyping of women today, today being October 18th. A second thought,

another day, I might say sex role stereo- come in hi-fi. According to Sloan some

points are painful according to Hoyle others are not.

All I can say really happened that day I wrote a poem at twilight, the rest was herstory for I've never to the Springs journeyed, I say to present self to Black Feminist. Venture I to say what that pulled together one day or whom. Well, a collective of pants’ persons crossing Autumn's campus w/M.S. heaving for days. The altitude has got her by the seat of her drawers while I dream sketches in the friendly air.

Women join Margaret Sloan in Black Student Union at 3, three. Sketches: 3 Black, 7 white (if one wants to speak opposites instead of Octaves). Who creates or recreates or reaffirms the stereo sex role? Specially rolled around a big fat cullid woman who hit the road to speak for herself. Ms. Sloan is big enough to stand at the front lines and shield us all who dare not come out of our points of pain, speak about it.

As I say I felt moved to do an evening poem proceeding Sloan’s 7:30 speech in a Chaparral, Black students who conspicuously missed the Union rap came out to Chaparral, Shove Chapel full of men and ladies. They can't resist the humor and vocality of Sloan's rap! Certainly her vocality of spirit is matching her physicality, remindful of silence as the greatest point of pain.

Earlier in the day at Hotel Antlers a door slams, a woman escort from Virginia Neal Blue Center had made a hasty exit from one of the many corners the BMR right hers had cornered or circled Margaret Rose Sloan (M.R.S.) yuk, yuk, lady exits barely holding self together. Margaret says, “why didn’t I ask that woman if she has a drinking problem?” Point of pain. Silence Some do and some don’t.

M.R.S. says she gonna diet after the holidays but holidays are about a family eat-in going down. Turkey, look out!

So anyway Libby Borsch from Littleton’s Women’s Resource Center along with Ms. Sloan, we two from BMR and four other good persons from Littleton’s Women’s Resource were circled again around Margaret Sloan over some lunch at a round table trading information. I turned to Carol and suggested a picture of women at the round table sans self-consciousness, afternooning it with the Black Feminist Dynamo from New York.

All agree and are aware of the stereotypes and perhaps sitting in the direction of go, the point where pain changes to joy.

HEY LADY!

Your Mama's calling you

to her

2nd BIRTHDAY PARTY

Music
Dancing
Door Prizes

Birthday Cake
Fun & Games

Everybody
Welcome

Come celebrate our 2 years publishing feminist issues & news

Cash Bar

NOVEMBER 16
8pm

Women's Bands

OXFORD HOTEL

THE ANNEX

17th & Wazee - Denver

$2 at the door.

Page 6

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

Prepared, Educated Childbirth Shows the Joy of Birth

Photo by Carol Lease

Jo and Gail Delaney and son

Carol Lease —

It isn’t impossible for a woman to go through pregnancy and
childbirth unaware of what is happening to her mind and body, but
it is a difficult and unnecessary experience for her to go through.
Two people who have discovered that prepared, educated
childbirth is “fantastic” and the way to have a child are Gail and Jo
Delaney, who live in Boulder with their four children and teach a
“natural” childbirth course through the Community Free School
there. A “natural” childbirth is any spontaneous, vaginal delivery

but not necessarily a prepared, educated delivery.

The common belief concerning childbirth is that
women should deliver their
babies while heavily drugged,
strapped down, and ignorant
of what their bodies are doing,
in pain, dependent on a
doctor.

“Delivering my first child
was a very unhappy, negative
experience,” says Gail. “I
didn’t know what was going
on. I was afraid, which just
made me more tense, which
intensified the pain and
created a horrible cycle. I
never wanted to go through
that again.”

“They wouldn’t let me see
her for 8 hours after the baby
was born,” responds Jo. “She
was in tears and felt awful.
She said ‘never again!’ I never
got any positive vibes from my
parents about birth. I knew
that there had to be a better
way to give birth."

It was through some women
in the La Leche League, an
organization that fosters
breastfeeding, that Gail
found out about prepared
childbirth. At first she was
skeptical: “Since they had

little or no pain and since they
seemed so turned on about it,
I thought that they were the
exceptions. But I went to a
class and learned the breath-
ing and read books. And when
I had my second baby, I was
prepared for it and it was
great.”

Jo agrees. “She was bubbly
after that birth. So turned-on.
That experience was com-
pletely different - very posi-
tive.”

In 1932, an English doctor,
Grantly Dick-Reed, introduced
a method of concentrated
relaxation during labor
through his book, Childbirth
Without Fear. He believed that
most “women approached
childbirth with a great amount
of fear and that the fear
caused tension which then

caused pain. His solution was
to eliminate this fear through
education. About the same
time, Fernand La Maze, a
French doctor, believed that
women could ease labor pain
by responding to labor con-
tractions with pre-learned
controlled breathing. As con-
tractions intensified, so would
the woman’s breathing and
therefore the relief of dis-
comfort.

The exercises that are
learned for prepared childbirth
help women breathe in such a
way that their bodies will
receive the oxygen necessary
to function most efficiently
while in labor. The controlled
breathing allows the muscles
of the body that are not being
used to relax and sends
energy to those muscles that
are working. Concentrating on
the proper breathing response
to muscle contractions places
a woman’s attention on doing
something, instead of always
thinking about the experiencing
pain and thereby diminishes
its effect.

The Delaneys feel that it is
not necessarily the fault of
doctors that most women
don’t have positive birth
experiences, but rather the
fault of the medical
schools whose primary pur-
pose training in obstetrics is
for difficult births. Only about
5% of all births are difficult.
The rest are normal and don't
require the use of an
excessive amount of drugs or
forceps to facilitate delivery.

Forceps are used in delivery
to terminate prolonged labor
when the mother or the baby
is endangered. The doctor
uses the double-bladed in-
strument to pull the baby
gently out of the mother’s
body. However, too often the
forceps are abused by using
them as a matter of conveni-
ence for the doctor. Also, the
use of regional block anes-
thesia has made women
unable to use the muscular
action needed to deliver the baby,
thereby requiring a forceps
delivery. It is uncommon for a
prepared, unanesthetized wo-
man to need a forceps delivery.

“Doctors find it easier to
cope with an unconscious
woman,” says Gail Delaney.
“Then they can have routin-
ized births like on a conveyor
belt rather than having to deal
with each woman individually.
But women have caught on to
prepared childbirth and are
teaching the doctors now. A
woman should be determined
but use tact when looking for
a doctor to cooperate with
her in a planned childbirth.”

“The fact that an obstetri-
cian receives from $300 to
$400 for his/her services must
also be a factor that doctors
take into consideration in
seeing the woman's point of
view,” says Jo.

Doctors have convinced
American women that the only
way to have a baby is to keep
their mouths shut and to do as
they are told. But more and
more women are challenging
this by asking questions
about their bodies and by
confronting doctors. One ex-
ample is the question of
performing an episiotomy on
a laboring woman. An episi-
otomy is the making of an
incision in the area between
the vagina and the anus to
enlarge the opening through
which the baby will pass. This
procedure is routinely done in
the United States, usually
because the woman is anes-
thetized and cannot feel when
to stop pushing and because
doctors are too hurried to
massage the vaginal opening
which could then stretch to
very wide proportions without
tearing and allow the birth.

Episiotomies are some-
times done so that a woman’s
vagina and pelvic floor mus-
cles will not stretch too much.
Doctors claim that this can
cause problems later, such as
uterine prolapse, which is
when a woman’s reproductive
organs begin to slip down
through the pelvic floor. This
occurs in women who have
had many deliveries and can
be avoided by exercise. The
real reason that doctors
perform unnecessary episi-
otomies seems to be that a
looser vagina will interfere
with a man’s sexual pleasure
during intercourse.

Another common practice
during delivery is to have the
woman lying on her back,
which causes the uterus to
press on a major blood vessel
that is involved in supplying
blood to the uterus. This
makes it harder for the woman
to breathe, inhibits her blood
circulation, and may harm the
baby.

“Home delivery is great. But
a woman should have a doctor
or somebody to help. (In
Colorado, a midwife must have
a medical degree.) It’s a
personal decision,” says Gail.
“It’s not like in Europe where
there are traveling emergency
units available to midwives
who deliver over half of all
babies at home. Special
cases, such as when multiple
births are predicted or when
the woman has had difficult
deliveries, are delivered in a
hospital with an attending
doctor.”

In this country, there is no
such system for home
deliveries. Midwives are illegal in
most states. Women are
forced to go to strange,
uncaring, non-supportive
hospitals and incur tremen-
dous expense and suffer
needlessly to perform a
completely natural act. Wo-
men who deliver babies are
treated like children and as if
they were sick.

“Prepared childbirth makes
a woman aware of what is
happening to her during labor.
She will probably have fewer
problems because her body
won’t be tense due to the
breathing exercises and the
fact that she will be concen-
trating on them and not the
contractions. She'll be more
able to cope with anything
that might happen and make
intelligent decisions,” says
Gail.

“It’s ideal to have her partner
there, but not necessary,” she
continues. “But you need to
have someone there to help.
Someone who is supportive
and knows what is going on
too.” Although not all hospi-
tals allow someone in the
delivery room, some do. And
those that don’t will have to be
changed. Jo Delaney feels
that being present at the birth
of a child allows a man “to
enjoy a pretty mysterious,
unknown part of life. For a
husband and wife to be
together at the time of birth is
a super hype to a relationship.
We love teaching these
classes and encourage wo-
men who are expecting a child
to try prepared childbirth.”
For more information on the
subject, call the La Maze
Association for Childbirth
Preparation at 388-1385.

INEZ GARCIA: SHE KILLED HER RAPIST AND WAS CONVICTED
Guest writer this month: Sandia

This edition of BMR is focusing on women and health.
Understandably, most of the articles concern issues related to the
particular physical and mental information that women need to
know about their bodies and the facilities available to them in our
area. But to assume that the question of health must be relegated
to such a narrow focus would be erroneous. When the society we
live in is sick, and when that society dictates the terms of right
and wrong (social health), then our own personal well-being is
jeopardized.

Too often the system is attacked in general terms and the
exact nature of its pathology undefined. However, there is a
specific example of the sickness of this society that may well turn
your stomach as it did mine. That it may turn your politics and
attitudes as well is the point of this article.

Inez Garcia, a 30-year-old woman from California, was
recently raped. Her reaction to that crime against her person and
dignity as a human being aroused in her a response that any
woman under the same circumstances would find justifiable: she
killed him. Inez has been convicted of second-degree murder.

Immediately, what floods into our brain is how is that
possible? Women treated as property by this society and defined
that way by the terms of marriage, name, money - are not allowed
to defend their ultimate property, themselves. You ask, what are
the mitigating circumstances?

Inez did not kill him immediately after the rape; in the heat
of passion would be the legal phrase. As if passion and the
intensity of our fear and anger diminishes over time. Inez had not
reported the rape to the police at first, as so many women do not,
because of the ensuing shame that follows—one would not be
ashamed to be robbed or beaten, but it is interesting that when the
essence of women is violated, a woman is made to feel indecent.

Thus, there was no “proof” of rape as determined by our
society, and need we add that that determination has been made
by lawyers and judges who have been mostly men. Requiring the
presence of semen as one of the few accepted criteria for rape
conviction is like asking for Hiroshima to show only its outward
destruction and not the scars that its people felt for years
afterwards in their hearts and feelings.

During the trial, the issue of rape was not allowed as
evidence because rape had not been proven; yet the rape was the
provocation. More than that, it brings up the question of
self-defense. A male juror reflects the ultimate crime behind the
system’s attitudes and actions. First, he noted that self-defense
wasn’t a viable position because “he’s not trying to kill her. He’s
just trying to screw her and give her a good time.” If this remark is
sick, another comment is proof of the insanity of the situation:
“When I leave here, I'll have less fear of raping a woman now than
I did before. At least I know if I get shot she wouldn't get away.”
When asked if he really meant that, he replied, “I wasn't joking...I
was thinking of all the men out there reading it. I told them that.”

It is the implications of this man’s statements and the court
decision that should make every woman’s blood curdle. If this
case becomes precedent, then male acceptance of rape and the
sickness it represents will become the basis for law. More, it will
become license.

The complete vindication of Inez Garcia is necessary to the
restoration of health in this society. It is not her problem alone; it
is a battleground for all women, an Armageddon where the values
of each of us as free persons are at stake. Admittedly, the prognosis is
poor, but the soundness and health of the social body is the
concern of all of us.

A defense committee for Inez has been set up. Send her
your money if you can, your psychic strength if you cannot:
Inez Garcia Defense Committee

c/o Stacy Falton

722 Alcatraz, Apt. 101
Oakland, California 94609

1 The Daily Californian, October 8, 1974, p. 12.

Free Programs at

The Denver Women’s Re-
source Center is sponsoring a
series of free, lunchtime
mini-workshops and evening
legal seminars for women
during November and Decem-
ber.

Workshops will be held
from 11 A.M. to 1:30 P.M. on
Wednesdays and will include
group discussions, speakers
and films. On November 13,
“Uterine & Breast Cancer” will
be the topic with the Denver
Unit of American Cancer
Society co-sponsoring the
discussion. As part of the
workshop, participants will
have the opportunity to make
a doctor's appointment for a
free pap test. Another work-
shop of note will include a
slide presentation designed to
show how children’s books
are still stereotyped and to
explain the need for supple-
menting a child’s reading with
non-sexist literature. The pre-
sentation, “Sex-Role Stereo-
typing in Children’s Books”
will be followed by a
discussion led by members of
the American Association of
University Women of Boulder.
In addition, a book display will
be set up offering alternative
suggestions for children's

reading materials.

On November 19 through
22, the Resource Center will
offer “On Job Direction,” a
four-day employment work-
shop that focuses on improv-
ing job-hunting skills and
techniques. It offers each
woman a chance to assess her
personal goals, strengths and
weaknesses through individu-
al and group counseling and
gives her practical experience
in writing a resume and
interviewing. Free child care
will be available.

A legal seminar, to be held
on November 12, will feature a
panel of lawyers who will
discuss “Finding a Good
Lawyer.” The panel will cover
such questions as whether
you need an attorney for your
grievance, how to choose a
good lawyer and what essen-
tial questions to ask your
lawyer. Other topics to be
discussed are qualifying for
free legal services and filing
grievances. Free child care is

also available for these
seminars. ©
The complete list of the

Resource Center’s program is
listed in the Feminist Calen-
dar of Events on the back
cover of this newspaper.

Big Mama Rag would like to extend our most heartfelt
thanks and appreciation to the women of Raw Honey who helped
make the paper's second benefit at the Oxford Hotel a success.
Your fine vocal and musical talent was certainly enjoyed by
everyone who attended the benefit. Members of the band are:
(from left to right) Christy Guio, Judy Blair, Chris Schmelitzer,
Susan Nichols, and Bean Hollander. Seated in front are Lorrie
Baum and the band’s mascot, Boo. For booking contact the Nova
Talent Agency in Boulder at (303) 825-7221. Big Mama’s next
benefit will be a birthday party celebrating our two years of
publishing to be held at The Oxford, Nov. 16 at 8 p.m. (See ad this
issue.)

Becky Morgenstern is now playing with Raw Honey.

Page 7

Inexpensive Contraceptives
Women's Resource Center Available for Women, Men

Sherilyn Brandenstein

Although numerous folks in
Colorado will at some time in
their reproductive years use
the services of a family
planning agency, most of
them are not aware of just
how extensive those services
are. In our state, there are three
primary sources of family
planning assistance: Denver
Health & Hospitals, the State
Department of Health and
Rocky Mountain Planned Par-
enthood (RMPP).

The most well-known serv-
ice of Planned Parenthood is
that of providing contracept-
ives. A woman, teen or adult,
may obtain the contraceptive
of her choice by making an
appointment at a Planned Par-
enthood clinic. There, the
doctor will examine her and
give her a Pap smear before
prescribing the method of
birth control she has chosen.
After the initial exam, she is
expected to return once a year
for a Pap smear and breast
examination. The fee for these
services is charged according
to the income of the woman

and/or her family. In other
words, each woman is asked
to pay as much as she can
afford. For a patient unable to
pay any fee, some limited
funds are available to cover
her services until she has an
adequate income.

If a woman thinks she may
be pregnant and is not sure
what to do about it, RMPP
offers both pregnancy testing
(by urine test and pelvic
examination) and problem
pregnancy counseling. Both
require appointments and
modest fees. If she seriously
decides to discontinue her
pregnancy, a woman can be
referred to a private doctor, a
public hospital or the Planned
Parenthood Central Denver
clinic for an abortion.

Other services

A contraceptive patient at
almost any RMPP clinic can
usually obtain other services
there as well. These include
testing and treatment for
venereal disease and vaginal
infections. She can also receive
a breast exam and learn how
to do her own self-exam at
home. If she is contemplating

a tubal ligation (female
sterilization), the Planned
Parenthood staff can provide
counseling and referral to a
doctor for such a procedure.

What about the man who
decides to take some respon-
sibility in the area of
controlling reproduction? Of
course, condoms are available
at all RMPP clinics. But for
the man who has determined
that he no longer wants the
potential to reproduce at all,
Planned Parenthood offers
vasectomy counseling, as
well as referral either to a
private urologist or to the
RMPP Central Denver vasect-
omy clinic.

So, it would seem that
Rocky Mountain Planned Par-
enthood provides services
primarily to individuals and
families. However, the ag-
ency also reaches out to the
community with more gener-
alized programs. One of the
fastest-growing segments of
RMPP is the training depart-
ment. Working out of the
central office in Denver, the

More on Page 18

Feminist Health Service ~
in Colorado Springs

The Women’s Health Serv-
ice of Colorado Springs
(WHSCS) started about two
and a half years ago with its
original purpose being to
provide educational oppor-
tunities and material to
women about their bodies
through self-health classes or
“clinics.”

The women spoke with
many other women and
doctors all over the state, put
out literature about health
care and prevention and some
members went to the Feminist
Clinic in Los Angeles to see
how that clinic operated. The
health service provides self-
health clinics in informal
gatherings and for large,
formal presentations.

According to a pamphlet of
the service, “self-health
revolves around the ‘well
woman’ concept, teaching
body awareness through
reading, audio-visual aids,
discussion and gynecological
self-examination. By practic-
ing preventive medicine, wo-
men neither diagnose nor
prescribe, but gain knowledge
and confidence about their
bodies and reduce their
ignorance and fears about
common concerns such as
burning, itching, discharges,
late periods, breast or cervical
cancer, birth control, preg-
nancy and menopause. At the
first unusual sign, women can
seek professional help and take
whatever action necessary
before a problem becomes
uncomfortable or even fatal.”

Since the health service
began receiving frequent in-
quiries about the local doctors
and the quality of medical
care, it has interviewed local
gynecologists and other doc-
tors. “We found that there are
no women gynecologists in
Colorado Springs,” says Su-
san Keating, a founder of the
group. “Some doctors would
not cooperate at all, but we
managed to compile a direc-
tory of services, fees and
attitudes of some of the
doctors here.”

The health service also

wanted to go into examination
rooms, with the permission of
the patient, and see just how
women were treated. Again,
many doctors were very
threatened by this. But there
were those doctors who were
open and were very co-opera-
tive and helpful. The service
wanted to provide advocacy
for women who were often
misinformed, confused, or
unaware of their rights as
patients.

Continues Susan, “When I
went to the Feminist Clinic in
Los Angeles, the doctor there
was very open and explained
everything. I’m sure they have
things to improve on (at the
clinic) but it's the best health
care I’ve seen for women.”

The Women’s Health Serv-
ice found out that women who
were in a pregnancy dilemma
had no place to go to receive
any counseling. Now counseling
is provided through the
health service. No particular
solution to the problem of an
unwanted pregnancy is
pushed at the counseling
service. A woman is provided
with an explanation of her
alternatives in a supportive,
non-judgmental atmosphere.

If a woman chooses to
terminate her pregnancy, she
soon discovers that in Colora-
do Springs no office proce-
dures are available because all
the doctors who will perform
abortions will do so only in
hospitals. Thus the financial
relationship between the hos-
pital and the doctor is
strengthened, at the expense
of a woman who does not
have the money to pay for a
hospital stay.

However, even women who
can pay the cost do not
receive good adequate medi-
cal care. Some doctors use
unnecessary anesthesia and
large equipment that just
increases a woman's trauma.
So many Colorado Springs
women go outside their
community to have abortions.
The health service provides an
advocacy/companionship
service to any woman who

Carol Lease

wants to go to Denver to have
an abortion. All the details
can be handled through the
service.

The Department of Public
Health, Planned Parenthood,
Colorado General Hospital
and crisis lines are a few of
the agencies that recognize,
“emotionally” support, and
refer women to the service.

However, since women are
at the bottom of the financial
ladder in this country and
have little money of their own,
the groups that they create
and maintain often suffer
financial insecurity. The
WHSCS is no exception. The
service is financially support-
ed solely by its unsalaried
organizers and donations. The
group has sought and is
seeking funding to keep its
services available for women.
Future plans include the
establishment of a free
pre-natal clinic, a full-fledged
women’s clinic, having some
members trained as nurse-
clinicians and publishing the
second edition of the service's
handbook Circle One.

The handbook was to be
available this fall, but printing
problems have delayed its
entry into the world of
feminist health care. The
group hopes that the printer
will resolve their problems
(financial ones, we're told)
because “back orders are
piling up!”

Circle One was published to
help consolidate all the
material the service had been
printing. It was the first
self-health handbook and is
used all over the country.

The health service can be
reached at 730 N. Tejon St.,
Colorado Springs, Colorado
80902. (303) 471-7717. Or con-
tact Suzanne Keating, 831 E.
Monument, Colorado Springs,
Colorado 80903 (303) 473-8700.

Pages

WOMEN & FINANCE

a column

Kathleen Richardson

Income protection to me is one of the most important
assets that any individual, married or single, can have. Only eight
out of a hundred people in the United States are financially
secure—that leaves the rest of us only a couple of paychecks away
from financial disaster.

Almost everyone has hospitalization protection through
their employer or on an individual basis. This helps with the
medical bills while in the hospital. What is there to take care of
other bills when you are out and cannot go back to work for a
couple of months? The rent, mortgage, taxes, time payments, and
groceries still continue.

Some people have savings accounts, but how long will that
last? Others could count on their borrowing power—but consider
who would loan money to someone disabled, and how would you
pay it back? Still others have affluent parents they can rely on...
most of us do not.

The whole concept of income protection is just what it
says—to protect your income in case something should happen to
your earning power. Stop and think for a moment, if you were to
be in one of the accidents Sky Spy reports every morning and
could not work for several months, what money would there be for
you to continue paying the bills?

Most income protection plans will cover 50% of your
income; some go as high as 66%. All the benefits received will be
tax-free to you.

There are several things to look for when considering an
income protection policy. The first one is to make sure that it is a
noncancellable and a guaranteed renewable. This will keep an
insurance company from refusing to renew your policy for any
reason and from raising your premiums. The non-cancellable
provision keeps them from cancelling you if they feel you have
become too costly. A retroactive waiver of premium will refund the premiums
that have been paid during a period of disability and will continue
to pay the premium for you until you are able to do so yourself.

A rehabilitation benefit provision can be a benefit if, after a
disability, you cannot resume your previous employment. This
benefit usually runs approximately six months and will help with
the cost of educating and training you for other employment.
Another provision to look for is house confinement. Some policies
state that you have to be confined in a hospital, a convalescent
facility, or a home. Look for one that does not require this
confinement. This is a situation that should be left up to you and
your doctor.

The waiting periods that you select for your income
protection policy is an individual consideration. The longer the
waiting periods, the more drastically the cost drops. No waiting
period versus a waiting period of six months can make a
significant difference in the premium rates. However, how long a
time you can remain financially independent while not working
should be your primary consideration. If you are living from pay
check to pay check, I would recommend a shorter waiting period
than if you have five months' salary tucked away in the bank. The
waiting period itself is divided into two types. One for sickness

and one for accident. Most people prefer a first-day accident
coverage with the seven to fourteen-day sickness waiting period.
The reasoning on the longer waiting period for sickness is that
most of us are sick for only a few days at a time and this is usually
covered by sick leave accumulated at work. But accidents can
cause an extended time away from our jobs and should be covered
immediately.

There are several optional benefits for a relatively low cost.
The first one is Guarantee of Future Insurability... this rider
guarantees a right at periodic times in the future to increase
monthly benefits without medical evidence of insurability. A
partial accident and sickness rider pays 50% of the monthly
benefit allowing a period of total disability when you can perform
only some of the regular duties of your occupation. A partial
accident rider covers accidents only; an accident death and
dismemberment rider provides, in addition to your monthly
benefit, a lump sum payment to your beneficiary in the event of any
accidental death, or a percentage of this amount for the loss of
body members. Finally, another common optional benefit is a
convalescent benefit. This pays for a percentage of a convalescent
facility should you require additional care but not enough to
warrant staying in the hospital.

There are standard exceptions to coverage, including war
and military service, self-inflicted injuries, special exclusions as
outlined by the policy.

What each individual must consider is the losses they
would suffer if they physically could not work for an extended
period of time. Savings last only so long; creditors want to see
payments being made on any loans made to you, and accepting
charity is undesirable for most people. Perhaps you cannot
escape disability, but you can avoid the effects of it.

KATHY PRITCHETT
(303) 572-4906

723 E. 17th AVE.
DENVER, COLO. 80203

Squatter’s Rights

Pay to Pee?

The Women’s Coalition to
End Pay Toilets (WCEPT) has
begun its attack on the city of
Denver with a demonstration
protesting the discrimination
women face at public facilities.
A stand-in action was held
at Stapleton Airport in Octob-
er.

The coalition recently con-
ducted a survey which shows
that the airport contains 84
pay facilities for women and
only 36 for men. There are 70
free urinals for men and only
16 for women.

According to Linda Meyer, a
spokesperson for the Coalition, this means that women
are charged almost four times
as often as men for the use of
toilet facilities.

The coalition has asked the
city to reconsider its contract
with Pacific Nik-o-Lok, but so
far nothing has happened.
“We tried to talk to Mayor
McNichols, but he never
called us back,” says Maryann
Tavery, another coalition
member. Tavery talked to her
councilman who subsequently
offered to set up a meeting
of the Stapleton Committee,
the part of the City Council
that deals with the airport,
with the WCEPT to discuss
the issue. So far, nothing has
come of that either.

The city grosses about
$60,000 a year from the pay
facilities, 90% of which goes
to the city, the rest to the
owning company.

The coalition feels that this
unequal economic burden
placed on women violates the
Public Accommodations Law
which prohibits unequal en-
joyment of services and
facilities in a place of public
accommodations because of
sex. The coalition also be-
lieves that the unfair practice
violates the Colorado Equal
Rights Amendment. Finally,
the Women’s Coalition to End
Pay Toilets feels the contract
isn’t keeping with the spirit of
City Ordinance 555 which
calls for non-discrimination in
city contracts.

The coalition questions the
existence of pay toilets for
anyone. According to their
position paper, the first pay
toilets locks in the United
States were installed in
railroad stations in 1910 when
indoor plumbing was rare.
This supposedly discouraged
non-passengers from using
the indoor facilities. Passengers
had the doors unlocked
for their use.

The coalition plans to bring
the issue into the courts in
civil suits. Because the
validity of class action suits is
being questioned, 75 ag-
grieved parties have signed
notarized complaints alleging
discrimination. If the case is
settled in favor of the
complainants, they are all
entitled to monetary com-
pensation under the provisions of
the Public Accommodations
Law. Other cities, counties
and states such as Chicago,
Florida, Nevada, and Las
Vegas have seen the discrim-
inatory effects of pay toilet
facilities on women and have
eliminated them. The coali-

The
Very Feminine
Question of

Life Insurance

In these liberated times no woman need
settle for weak, ineffective financial
planning. Developing financial
independence and estate security for the
future is as important for women as it is
for men. Your Fidelity Union Life Field
Associate knows that and can help you
achieve a CollegeMaster® or other
program which will meet your needs now

and in the future.

Call the Fidelity Union Field Associate
in your area:

Janet Holzworth

or
Naomi Weinert

455-7400

428-5966

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

tion questions why it is so
hard for the city of Denver to
see the discrimination also.
Members of the WCEPT
include the Metro Denver
National Organization for Wo-
men, the Gray Panthers, the
Minority Women’s Task
Force, Federally Employed
Women, the Pueblo National
Organization for Women, and
the Aunt Clara Brown National
Organization for Women.

Photo by Babs Nash
Women’s Coalition to End Pay

Toilets holds a stand-in at
Stapleton airport.

Action Taken
Against
Dalkon IUD

Controversy over the poten-
tial dangers of the Dalkon
Shield IUD has moved to the
courts.

A.H. Robins Company,
manufacturers of the device,
have become the target of
what may be the first class
action suit by a doctor against
a pharmaceutical firm.

The action came when a
Wichita, Kansas woman be-
came pregnant shortly after
she’d had the Dalkon Shield
inserted. The woman filed a
malpractice suit asking
$40,000 in damages from her
obstetrician and $250,000
from A.H. Robins.

Her doctor then filed a
cross claim against A.H.
Robins asking $300,000 in
actual damages and $2 million
in punitive damages on behalf
of other doctors who may face
malpractice suits from pa-
tients for whom they’ve
prescribed the device.

His suit charges that the
company promotes the Dal-
kon Shield without adequate
testing and “without warning
the medical profession of all
the risks associated with the
use (of the shield) such as
partial perforation or embed-
ment of the uterus upon
insertion and post-insertion
migration.”

Jill  
Johnston  
at CU  

Chocolate Waters  

It seems to me that every  

dyke in America has written  
love-letters to Jill Johnston at  
one time or another. I first  
started dashing off notes to  
this woman who has become  
one of the most well-known  
radical Lesbian writers in the  
country, when I was a senior  
in college. It was a time when  
nobody would dare whisper  
the word “Lesbian” let alone  
write about actually being  
one.  
Having been a closet dyke  
for years, I first stumbled  
across Jill in the Village Voice  
when she was coming out  
with “Lois Lane is A Lesbian”  
and other related articles.  
From then on I read her  
column avidly and even  
though I thought she was  
terribly obscure sometimes, I  
knew Lesbians were in there  
somewhere and I was desper-  
ate for information.  

At that time around 1970  
Johnston had not yet been  
politicized; she hadn't started  
relating Lesbianism to Fem-  
inism and was still what she  
termed “your average Ameri-  
can individualist.” A misfit of  
sorts, she never really fit into  
the Gay Liberation Movement  
and she’s still not quite  
comfortable with the Wo-  
men’s Movement-- where she  
has at times been viciously  
attacked. Although Johnston  
has a perceptive grasp of  
radical feminist principles,  
many women have found her  
snowflake patterns of writing  
too dispersed for ready  
understanding. Other women,  
however, carry around her  
second book, Lesbian Nation  
--The Feminist Solution, in-  
side their hearts like a modern  
manifesto of radical femin-  
ism.  

Livening up Boulder  

On the evening of Oct. 9,  
Jill Johnston sauntered into  
the Alumnae Hall at the  
University of Colorado in  
Boulder with an “entourage”  
which consisted of her 14-  
year-old daughter, Winnie and  
her 17-year-old son, Richard  
and a few friends. Flopping  
down in a comfortable chair,  
she crossed her legs, held on  
to her coffee cup for security,  
and asked us what we wanted  
to talk about. The audience,  
which consisted primarily of  
women sprawled in all direc-  
tions across the floor, seemed  
to be taken aback.  

Perhaps they weren’t aware  
of the intense criticism Jill  
has received about being a  
Women’s Movement “Star.”  
(i.e. a creation of the media  
who is expected to monopo-  
lize and overpower a situation  
with one’s very presence).  
Nevertheless, it was obvious  
at the outset that she was  
struggling with that dilemma.  
Both of her “speaking en-  
gagements” at CU took on the  
form of informal rap sessions  

with women interacting with  

Jill as well as with each other.  

Unfortunately for some, and  
fortunately for others, Jill  
Johnston speaks the way she  
writes--a sunburst of anec-  
dotes, personal perceptions,  
historical facts, and radical  
ideologies. Her mind kaleido-  
scopes in such a way and on  
so many different levels  
simultaneously that many  
women went away feeling as  
though they'd somehow  
missed the point. “Where was  
the logic?” they wondered. “I  
didn't think she made any  
sense at all!" exclaimed  
others in exasperation.  

One of the primary reasons  

for confusion probably cen-  
tered around the clashing of  

basic radical feminist ideolo-  
gies with more conservative  

questions of equal rights.  

That many did not seem to  

understand that such differ-  
ences even existed only added  
to the confusion.  

Opinions crossed class and  
sexual orientation lines, but  
basically the argument fell  
into two camps. On the one  
hand were the equal rights  
women who believed that  
legislative reform would cor-  
rect the oppression of women.  
They wanted to petition  
senators and legislators and  
work for reforms within the  
laws.  

On the other side of the  
coin were the more radical  
women who asserted that  
winning so-called equality in a  
world controlled by men and  
men’s values should not be a  
major goal of Women’s  
Movement. These women  
maintained that the entire  
male system must be subvert-  
ed by creating women’s own  

institutions which would work  

for women and promote  
women-identified values at  
the same time.  

Coin Goes Back and Forth  

The coin, which was tossed  
back and forth sporadically,  
displayed both sides of the  
sexual orientation issue as it  
pertained to legislative re-  
forms and radical feminist  
underminings. Said a Boulder  
woman, “I wish all the gay  
senators and lawmakers  
would come out... it’s the  
people in the government with  
power and money who legis-  
late our existence. Change  
never occurs from the bottom  
up. It always happens from  
the top down.”  

Many women heatedly dis-  
agreed. “It’s exactly the  
opposite,” exclaimed a woman  
from Denver. “When you ask  
the system to give you validity  
by making you legal, then  
you're giving validity to that  
system which oppresses us.”  

Another Denverite argued  
vehemently that she didn't  
want a piece of the pie: “I don't  
want to be equal with what it  
is men are in this system and I  
don’t need male legislators to  

tell me whether I have the  
right to exist!”  
Jill Johnston, who sees  

espousal of radical feminist  
views as probably a major  
reason why she wasn’t under-  
stood very well in Boulder,  
offered her own view. “When  
the point remains at a sexual  
preference level then how are  
you going to educate people  
that Lesbianism means  
something much more than  
just who you sleep with. (i.e. a  
whole way of life, a way of  
undermining the patriarchy  
and creating your own situa-  
tions). “As women's con-  
sciousness gradually chang-  
es,” she continued, “women  
are finding it impossible to  
work in any kind of hierarchal  
structures. What's happening  
all over the country right now  
is that women are gradually  
withdrawing from these insti-  
tutions and creating their  
own. The question is how to  
do this effectively.”  

Many Unconvinced  

Many women, however,  
refused to be convinced and a  
staunch supporter of legisla-  
tive reform cited the abortion  
issue as an example of how  
the law can change things  
effectively.  

“But,” quipped Jill, “when  
women get their conscious-  
ness raised then they won't  
need abortions anymore.”  

Nevertheless, the argument  
seemed to be at a standstill  
and the rest of the evening  
was devoted to other topics  
such as psychic feminism,  
violence in relation to the  
movement, and the tensions  
(or lack of them) between  
heterosexual feminists and  
Lesbian Feminists.  

One woman wanted to know  
what Jill thought radical  
feminists were really into  
these days. She threw up her  
hands, almost cackled and  
exclaimed with a bit of exas-  
peration, “Romance, witch-  
craft and astrology.” She also  
felt that a lot of women were  
dealing with the question of  
“mahogany.” A man in the  
audience didn’t get the pun on  
monogamy. “Mahogany,” she  
explained patiently, “is a form  
of relating to just one other  
person-- you know, as op-  
posed to cedar or pine.”  

Although the discussion  
was still going strong at  
11:30--the building was about  
to be shut down on us and the  
crowd dispersed somewhat  
reluctantly. Nevertheless,  
many of the same women  
came to Jill's informal talk at  
the student union the next  
day. The setting was some-  
what more formal with Jill on  
stage this time, but the  
proceedings were basically  
the same.  

As she was reading from a  
new piece concerning  
“smother-daughter" relation-  
ships, I was thinking more  
about what a nice person she  
really was than about what  
she was reading. Jill Johnston  
was infamous for being outra-  
geous--for throwing chairs  
and plates of fruit, for  
swimming half-nude at an  
elegant fund-raising benefit,  
for blatantly asking Gloria  
Steinem to dance etc. These  
antics surrounded Jill like an  
aura, but in person she was  
very serious, usually witty,  
and sometimes even shy. She  
even dealt with the men in the  
audience in a nice way when  
they prated on about whatever  
it was they were prating on  
about. Mostly, however, I was  
impressed with how genuinely  
she responded to other  
women and how very real she  
was in person.  

Her latest book, Gullible’s  
Travels is now available at  
local bookstores.

Noontime sun filters in through shirred  
curtains, across the pianos, back to back,  
and rests against the wall opposite  

“Let's go back to the beginning and try  
again, girls. An-n-nd one. . .”  

On the window sill, busts of composers  
stare, brooding and dignified, out into  
the room—a visual maze of wooden  
puppets and Wedgewood, portraits of  
friends, fresh flowers, hand-lettered sheet  
music, porcelain planters, and overstuffed  
chairs.  

“Good, good. Now do you remember  
what you're to practice for next week?”  

Antonia Brico finishes a piano lesson.  

She puts her arm around each of the  
sisters, “These are T.P.'s,” she announces.  
The girls look up, shy and puzzled.  
“Teacher's pets,” she explains, then  
laughs and hugs them both.  

The first time I saw Antonia Brico  
conduct, high on her podium dressed in  
black, she was huge and regal. As the  
audience quieted and she signaled the  
orchestra with her baton, her upraised  
arms seemed to encircle the entire stage.  

Today, leaning on the piano counting  
time, with one eye on her student's hands  
and the other on the score, I find she’s a  
small woman. In her home, her studio,  
she’s not single-mindedly serious as when  
performing, but remains in benevolent  
command (of all but Carmen the cat who  
curls up where she will.)  

Always ready to tease; always ready to  
laugh, Antonia Brico is guileless and alive  
with unaffected enthusiasm. And her  
enthusiasm brims on one subject in  
particular: Antonia: A Portrait of a  
Woman, the new film chronicling her life  
and struggle as a woman conductor.  

Assembled by her former student, now  
folksinger, Judy Collins, and film editor  
Jill Godmilow, the documentary has  
received adulation from publications as  
diverse as the Village Voice and Time  
Magazine. Few have denied that the  
research, interviewing, filming, and editing  
are sound and cohesive; that the movie  
is art. But none have denied that its subject,  
Antonia Brico, is a woman of talent and  
strength.  

Though she studied piano from the age  
of five and finally received a degree from  
the Master School of Conducting at the  
Berlin State Academy, her career as a  
conductor has been sporadic because, as  
the film reveals, she is a woman.  

In 1930, at the age of 28, Dr. Brico  
became the first woman to conduct the  
Berlin Philharmonic. She went on to  
conduct at the Hollywood Bowl, the  
Metropolitan Opera House in New York,  
even Carnegie Hall. She was well-received  
by all but boards of directors and  
managers of symphony orchestras. None  
would hire a female conductor. “We  
cannot sell a woman conductor,” they  
insisted.  

The hot/cold reactions to her conducting,  
or at least her saleability, were often  
emotionally draining. During a quiet,  
late-night sequence in the film, Dr.  
Brico’s eyes grow distant as she tells of  
crying all night following a successful  
performance in New York, not knowing  
when or if she would get another chance.  

But she also rages at the unfairness.  
“The orchestra is my instrument. How  
would you like to be able to play your  
instrument only five to six times a year  
when you're able to play five or six times  
a month?” she demanded of Collins in  
the film.  

In defiance of her discrimination, Dr.  
Brico began an all-woman orchestra in  
New York in the 1930s. And for a time,  
it generated a lot of publicity, good and  
bad, and filled auditoriums. But as the  
novelty wore off, crowds thinned and the  
orchestra was forced to disband.  

Elusive though they were, the periodic  
engagements as guest conductor for  
orchestras throughout the United States  
and abroad encouraged Dr. Brico to  
continue her struggle. Newspaper clip-  
pings in her carefully kept scrapbooks  
testify to the fact that whenever she did  
conduct, she was a success.  

Her travels, involvement in music, and  
engaging personality led her into close  
friendships with many well-known artists  
and intellectuals. In the documentary, she  

Story by Nancy Heine  

recalls times spent with Bruno Walter,  
Jean Sibelius, Arthur Rubinstein, and  
Igor Stravinsky. But Antonia Brico’s face  
becomes alternately excited and melan-  
choly when she remembers Albert  
Schweitzer, whose large color photograph  
hangs prominently above the stairway in  
her home.  

I noticed a smaller framed photo of  
Schweitzer signed “Antonia, mit liebe,  
Albert” as I settled into a chair waiting  
for Dr. Brico to see her students out the  
door. Evidence of her own affection—for  
her students—lay on the coffee table in  

Photos by Glenna Booth  

front of me: a basket of suckers, neatly  
lined with a paper napkin, wood puzzles  
and magazines to keep impatient little  
pianists quietly entertained.  

When the students had gone, and  
Carmen, lying languidly across the top of  
the piano, had been indulged with a bit  
of petting, Dr. Brico sat down across  
from me. “Did you see the movie?” she  
asked.  

I said I had and told her I was as  
impressed as everyone else seemed to be.  
“But how do you feel about it?”  

“I thought it was marvelous how they  
put that together,” she said. “And  
marvelous how they unearthed that  

Fox Movietone (old film clip which opens  
the documentary) of me.  

"That was the Metropolitan Opera  
House stage. It was 1933. And it was  
such an event to have a woman conduct  
that the Fox Movietone made a newsreel  
out of it. I saw it in a theatre but didn’t  
know what happened to it. They found it  
in Los Angeles.”  
“Since it was such a personal film,  
didn’t you...”  
“I know it. I know it,” Dr. Brico  
interrupted, excited, “and that’s the  
thing that seems to have gotten people.  
And I think it’s because I wasn’t aware of  
it; I wasn’t aware that I was in the movies  
or that I was being taped.  

“I was just with a good friend. And  
then, she was clever enough to ask  
provocative questions that got me upset  
and wild. I would not have talked like  
that if I had really been aware it was for  
publication.  

“I don’t think I ever thought the movie  
was going to be such a big thing. I  
thought it was a personal affair between  
Judy and myself.”  

“When we made Time Magazine, I  
thought that was unbelievable,” she said,  
shaking her head and obviously pleased.  

I asked naively how Time could ignore  
the film when every major paper in cities  
it had played had praised it.  

“How could they ignore it!” she shot  
back incredulously, “I've been ignored a  
great deal, my dear.” Then raising her  
eyebrows and nodding, she said again,  
“I’ve been ignored.”  

“What about the male musicians?” I  
asked. “Did they ever resent being  
conducted by a woman?"  

“No, never,” Dr. Brico protested,  
“They're musicians. They only want to  
know if the person up there knows  
anything about music. That's all they  
care about. I’ve never had any problems  
with musicians, and I've conducted in  
many capitals abroad.”  

For the past 27 years, Dr. Brico has  
conducted her own non-profit, semi-  
professional orchestra in Denver which  
performs four or five times a year. How  
was it, I asked, that she had finally  
settled in Denver?  

In 1940, she explained, she shared a  
manager with George Enescu, a well-  
known composer/conductor/pianist.  
When Hitler closed the Romanian  
borders, Enescu, a Romanian, was unable  

to fulfill his worldwide engagements. His  
manager tried to distribute the concerts  
to his other artists.  

In December 1940, Dr. Brico conducted  
in Enescu’s place in Denver. “They were  
skeptical,” she said, “but they liked me  
enough to engage me for the next year for  
two concerts.  

At this time the Denver Businessmen’s  
Orchestra was forming as an alternative  
to the Denver Symphony Orchestra.  
Leon Minear conducted the new  
orchestra for a year, then found himself  
too busy with other projects to continue.  
He suggested Dr. Brico be named as a  
replacement. After conducting the group  
20 years, Dr. Brico was honored by  
having the orchestra named after her.  

Today, at the age of 73, Dr. Brico’s  
time is divided between rehearsing the  
orchestra, giving piano lessons in her  
home, and occasionally guest conducting.  
(On Sunday afternoon, November 10, she  
will conduct the Denver Symphony in a  
free concert at the Auditorium Theatre at  
3 p.m.)  

The film, Antonia, has re-established her  
fame and generated fan mail from old  
students and new admirers throughout  
the world. The Brico Symphony coffers  
swell with profits from a recent benefit  
showing.  
The most important effect of the film,  
however, has yet to be realized. That is,  
whether it has an impact on sexist  
attitudes toward conducting.  

“Do you think it’s easier for women to  
conduct now?" I asked.  

"Well, yes," Dr. Brico replied thoughtfully.  
“There are some, a handful, of women  
being trained as conductors now and I'm  
sure they'll have an easier road.  
We'll see if this film brings others more  
opportunities than I've had.”

Page 12

While we wait.

Linda Fowler

We are hanging on for dear life to the tail of a rampaging
tiger. And right now I wouldn’t be into taking any bets on the out
come.

Big Mama has grown faster than we, the staff, and our
resources have. She has become Denver's feminist communica-
tion institution and one of the major feminist publications in this
country. The amount of work coming into this office increases
every day. More letters, paperwork, phone calls - half the time you
can’t work for answering the phone. (This is one of the few places
Denver women can get information and help they need; would
someone please organize a feminist switchboard?)

The women’s movement in Denver is mushrooming.
Keeping up with happenings that need to be covered is
impossible. Writers! We need writers! If you can write, or think
maybe you can write, or want to learn and can do something on
assignment - cover a story, work on researching and writing a
feature - call us and do it.

Maybe you don’t want to write, or don’t have time to write,
or don’t want to be a big part of BMR, but you still care about the
paper. Well, if you don’t mind shit work, there is plenty. Come in
for an hour and file - the backlog will amaze you. Take a mailing to
the post office. Do a little typing. Stay at home and clip articles
from newspapers for our resource library. Help put up posters.
Ask a store you know to sell the paper.

Money! Oh woe! Our money situation is so questionable
that we don’t often know for sure if the next issue will come out.
We need $1,000 a month to publish this paper. And rest assured
no one is getting rich on it. The two paid coordinators get $125
per month each. That's less than $1 per hour for a forty-hour week,
a luxury we rarely get. It’s impossible to make it on that kind of
pay without a little help from your friends. Big Mama needs about
five full-time paid staffers to do the job right, PLUS lots of
contributors. To everyone who has ever said Big Mama is a good
newspaper and you're glad she’s here, we are saying please, put
your money where your mouth is. If every woman who reads this
paper gave $1 a month we would not have money problems. For
that $1 a month you can give something to an awful lot of sisters.
Make a pledge. Do it!

When you’re moving as fast as you can go, and there is
always more work to do, and you get more behind, and you
wonder who cares you can start to get depressed. That's bad for
the soul and it doesn’t do Mama any good either.

Lady, your Mama’s here, and she loves you. And she
needs you. Take care of her. Won’t you?

YESTERDAY'S
LESSONS

a novel

“They had this buffet or al-a-carte or
bar, something and they served snails and
a squid and Janice was eating it. She

made me take some but I almost

vomited, "Do you want me to throw
up here in front of everyone before
we get our trophy?”

By Sharon Isabell
$2.50

the women's press collective
5251 Broadway, Oakland, Cal. 94618

send orders to

RAINOGERG

RHINOCEROS
c/o GAY COALITION, P.O. BOX 18501
DENVER, CO., 80218, (303) 831-8838

SUBSCRIPTION RATE ——

Individuals $5.00
Alternative Organizations $3.00
Institutions $8.00
Students & Military $3.00

Prisoners and Mental

Patients free

THE MONTHLY JOURNAL OF THE GAY COALITION

Sexuality

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

Workshops:

From Guilt to Responsibility

Carol Lease

Sexuality is a part of
women's lives that has been
denied and repressed to serve
the needs of the dominant
economic, cultural and social
system. The sexual revolution
has been a fraud, especially to
women, but the experience of
women has raised serious
questions and exposed needs
and women are now doing
something about it. One place
in Denver that a woman can
deal with her sexuality is at a
Human Sexuality workshop
conducted by Jean Fortier, a
member of the staff of the
Gestalt Institute in Denver.

“A lot of what happens to
women is that we grow up like
child-women and not like
adults,” Fortier says. “Women
must realize that they don’t
need permission to be angry
and that they don’t have to
spend the rest of their lives
hating men.

“Women are sexual beings.
We have to realize that it is
alright to say no, to have
orgasms, to know about our
bodies.”

Fortier feels that many
women, whether homosexual
or heterosexual, are centered
around making the other
person feel good instead of
making joy for the self. “It
may be that women don’t feel
worth, and hence won’t allow
themselves pleasure.” It isn’t
hard to understand this since
women grow up with such an
enormous amount of myths,
some of which deal with
menstruation, beauty, the “joy
of martyrdom,” self-sacrifice,
passivity.

The participants in the
sexuality workshops share
what each has learned about
sex while growing up and
“reparent” themselves with
positive sex attitudes. They
also need to get in touch with
and become responsible for
their sexuality, says the
therapist. “Giving people the
permission to talk about their
sexuality gives them permis-
sion to talk about who they
are.” It is also important to
show people that “they are not
responsible for their feelings
but are responsible for what
they do about their feelings.
It's OK to get turned on by
someone or something. What
matters is what you do about it.”

The sexuality classes will
hopefully begin to be held in
the community so they can
help para-professional or pro-
fessional people deal with
their sexuality and therefore
their clients’. The Institute is
now working on a form to
send to Denver area sex
therapists to find what their
values are and make that
available to the community.

An example of the resist-
ance displayed toward the entire
idea of sexuality discussion
has been shown by Denver
General Hospital, according
to Fortier. Sexuality work-
shops are being held at DGH
for staff people of the Family
Planning Clinic. It seems that
the clinic works with family
planning and nobody knows
about sex. An important
aspect of the workshop is for
each staff member to be able
to bring a “significant other”
to the workshop. But the
administration said no and so
by not allowing this bond,
sexuality and work are kept
separate, says Fortier. “This
creates a compartmentaliza-
tion of their existence,” and
the program would then seem
to be at a disadvantage.

Jean Fortier is involved in
the humanistic approach to
self-growth. She works with
women's Gestalt and human
sexuality groups. She can be
reached at the Gestalt Insti-
tute, 831-7731.

Side Effects
of the Pill

The most serious side ef-
fects of the pill include:
thromboembolism, or blood
clotting: Estrogen in the pill
may cause unnecessary clot
forms within a blood vessel,
obstructing the flow of blood
and starving body tissue.
Thromboembolism can have
serious and even fatal con-
sequences.

Strokes: Estrogen in the
pill causes blood pressure to
increase in susceptible wo-
men. High blood pressure
increases the chance of a
stroke, which is the rupture of
a blood vessel leading to or
from the brain. Severe, debili-
tating headache is a stroke
symptom. If severe headache
is experienced when taking
the pill, a doctor should be
consulted to rule out the
possibility of stroke.

Women should NEVER take
the pill if they have or have
ever had thromboembolism,
thrombophlebitis, pulmonary
embolism, a stroke, retinal
thrombosis, heart disease or
defect, severe endocrine dis-
order, recurrent jaundice of
pregnancy, or any form of
cancer.

Nuisance effects of the pill
are many. They include
nausea, fluid retention,
weight gain, giant freckles on
the face, excessive vaginal
discharge, changes in facial
or body hair, mood changes,
fatigue, oily scalp and skin,
breast enlargement, break-
through bleeding, yeast or
fungus infections, and other
metabolic side effects.
from THE BIRTH CONTROL
HANDBOOK

NTR ON THE ST

Books

Small Changes, 1972  
Marge Piercy  
Fawcett Paperback  
$1.75  

Reviewed by Sandia  

This, Marge Piercy’s second  
novel, follows the lives of two  
women—Beth and Miriam—in  
finely drawn portrait mini-  
atures blown up generation  
size. For in their lives, as they  
move through the paroxysms  
of the 60’s and into the 70’s,  
weaves the thread of our own  
lives from childhood to  
womanhood. For some of us  
the process of growth and  
radicalization stops as it does  
with Miriam; for others of us  
it has been a constant renewal  
as with Beth.  

Beth goes through a famil-  
iar pattern: she marries, she  
despairs, she flees the mar-  
riage. Once in Boston, she  
begins an odyssey of self that  
eventually defines her as  
outlaw. Though the paperback  
cover intrigues us with the  
suggestion that she will end  
up in the arms of another  
woman, it is purposeful that  
the theme of woman loving  
woman does not develop until  
late in the story.  

The length of the novel has  
been subject to some critici-  
sm, but in order to appreciate  
Beth's transformation, as well  
as Miriam’s stagnation, it is  
necessary as the title sug-  
gests to witness incident by  
incident, mind by mind, the  
stages of change that indeed  
we all go through. Beth’s  
relationship with Wanda real-  
istically comes as it does with  
so many women in this  

society only after the expect-  
ed things are done, only after  
the assaults on our dignity,  
and that final “click” that  
suddenly puts things in  
perspective.  

Miriam, who begins as the  
stronger female figure of the  
two, is the portrait of near  
disintegration. Her background  
is no less familiar though the  
details of her Jewish upbringing  
in New York are surfacely  
different from those of Beth. She goes  
from fat Miriam Berg to  
sensual Miriam Stone only to  
find that her marriage to the  
“exceptional” man, Neil, can-  
not give her what she truly  
needs. Neil’s characterization  
underlines an important truth:  
men, while chasing, hunting  
the free spirits that women are  
before they are wives, are  
loving, undemanding, able to  
give. These same men, once  
the prize is now property,  
become not only insensitive,  
but blind to the needs and  
space that all growing crea-  
tures require. The whole  
process of marriage leaves her  
less free than ever and her  
entrapment includes a whole  
series of rationales she uses  
to justify her life. What we see  
as readers that Miriam sadly  
cannot, is that while Beth is  
undergoing small changes  
that eventually add up to  
some kind of identity, Miriam  
continues to take more and  
more shit. Each layer piles up  
as she is forced to lose more  
and more of her spirit, until  
finally we see she is actually  
sitting on a large dung  

heap—only the tragedy is that  
Miriam may never see it for  
what it is and recover the lost  
notion of herself. Although  
she helps Beth and Wanda  
kidnap back Wanda’s child-  
ren, it is an exciting momen-  
tary identity she shares with  
the women; she cannot  
understand the total com-  
mitment to women that Beth  
makes.  

The men, while easily  
recognizable as types, are not  
lacking in dimension either.  
Jackson is the sardonic cynic,  
the austere ascetic. For him  
women are always sitting  
across from him in some  
social chess game. And he  
knows he can call mate at any  
time. Love with him is  
friction, conquest.  

Phil, the lost poet and  
ever-present child, at first he  
seems to come on as the  
sensitive young man who  
initiates Miriam, but he too is  
also devoid of any ultimate  
empathy. One incident in the  
book makes this so clear. He  
goes and screws Laverne, the  
wife of Ryan. Ryan had  
“raped” Miriam at a business  
conference. In his logical  
male mind, Phil was using  
Laverne to even the score and  
announces this matter of  
factly to Miriam as though  
Laverne were just anyone's  
pawn—some object in some-  
one else’s arena.  

It is against these men who  
filter out the feminine in us  
that the strength and beauty  
of Wanda emerges. She is  
glimpsed early in the novel  

as the wife of Joe Rosario (or  
more aptly put, Joe’s old lady)  
leftist revolutionary. She is  
bedraggled, seen as a burden  
to Joe’s activities. As his wife  
she has no character. As  
Wanda, the leader of a  
women’s theater, she is fiery.  
She nearly becomes the  
goddess incarnate in her  
sense of the eternal feminine.  
Her dialogue and comments  
are at once the most inspiring  
and the most controversial.  

When Wanda is subpoenaed  
by a Grand Jury investigating  
Joe even though she had not  
been with him for three years,  
she refuses to answer any  
questions despite the threat of  
imprisonment. To answer one  
question is to answer them all,  
to destroy “the whole web of  
connections in the movement.”  
Wanda is at that stage of  
consciousness where the  
movement that she identifies  
with includes the boys on the  
left, third world people, liberal  
women. Her explanation to  
Beth is that she won't carry  
Joe on her back any more, and  
further, “he isn’t my worst  
enemy.”  

For Wanda the enemy is  
still the state who makes war,  
the corporations who poison  
the earth for profit. The  
system. She doesn’t see the  
system as men, for she  
praises Joe for having made it  
in the white man’s world  
without seeing Joe as part of  

Women in the Media: A Disappointing Affair  

Rosemary Barnwell, Script  
Writer; Lily Estella, Narrator;  
Virginia Woodard, Consultant;  
Manny Cantu, Producer-director;  
Sam Houston, Cameraperson.  

Chocolate Waters  

The first KOA television  
special on women, one of the  
programs local groups had  
fought the station so hard for,  
was aired on Channel 4, Sept.  
29. The hour-long program  
called “Women in the Media,”  
was for the most part as  
unimaginative as its title.  
Even the technical aspects of  
the program were monoton-  

ous.  
Almost totally lacking in  
continuity or thought, the  
show’s basic premise seems  
to have been, “Well, let’s go  
find some women in the  
media and talk to them.”  
Actually, the special ran more  
like a public relations release  
for KOA and other local  
stations than a program  
dealing intelligently with wo-  
men in the media.  

Perhaps the most discour-  
aging aspect of this show was  

the complete lack of discus-  

sion or analysis concerning the  
issues of women in relation to  
the media. Even the recent  
battle with KOA to win a small  
amount of air time went  
unsaid and most of the  
women who spoke were eager  
to point out how wonderful it  
all was, how few problems  
they had, and how pleased  
they were to be there at all.  
There was no anger, no life,  

no controversy and no one  
willing to say very much about  
anything. There was little  
discussion about the strug-  
gles of women in the media,  
how they were treated as  
women or what special things  
women themselves could do  
with the power of the media.  

Questions about what wo-  
man’s function could be in  
one of the most powerful  
male-dominated fields in the  
world were not even raised.  
Just the fact that “a woman's  
function in” needs to be said  
at all is revealing; women  
certainly do not control or  
even influence the media very  
much.  

On the program, however,  
the role of women in the  
media simply became a matter  
of changing the projectionist.  
Nauseatingly enough, the  
only real point which the show  
made was that women could  
indeed become a part of the  
media if they worked hard and  
“weren't too radical,” as  
Rosemary Barnwell said. That  
a few women can be success-  
ful is not even a point. A few  
women can, but so what?  
Limited individual achieve-  
ment has nothing to do with  
women gaining any power in  
the total construct.  

Same Old Way  

We'll still have shows that  
are violent, racist, and sexist  
and we'll still have commer-  
cials that are as repugnant as  
the ones that were inserted in  
this very special on women.  
Only now we'll have women  
who call themselves “camera-  

men” doing the shooting,  
women writing the violent  
scripts about men killing each  
other and raping women, and  
women broadcasting the news  
that men make about them-  
selves. How very wonderful  
that women can do the same  
things that men do and in the  
very same ways. How very  
disappointing.  

The next upcoming special  
will be dealing with women in  
sports and women in the  
National Organization for Wo-  
men. I only hope that they will  
show more consciousness,  
more vitality, and more  
controversy than this one did.  
I also hope that the programs  
will not be both directed,  
produced, and engineered by  
Manny Cantu and Sam Hous-  
ton or any other such  
unimaginative people. I feel  
that one of the biggest  
reasons this first special on  
women was so dull was  
because men with no real  
interest or knowledge of  
women and women’s issues  
were in such key positions. I  
had the overwhelming feeling  
that the show was just put  
together because there had to  
be a show about women. A  
we-have-to-do-it-so-here-it-is  
kind of attitude. These spe-  
cials are for and about  
women; they should be the  
products of many women and  
many women with a feminist  
awareness!  

Ferretta  

Music Service  

777-5714  
82 South  
Broadway  

Denver  

the problem. The point that  
Wanda—and Piercy—miss is  
that Joe is the system also.  
That it is not only our politics  
but our sex which is at issue.  
Joe is part of the total sexist  
oppression as his actions  
toward Wanda make clear.  
This section is the strongest  
political statement of the  
book, and Wanda’s position  
becomes one of confronting  
the system with our bodies if  
necessary. A fine leftist  
statement, but not a feminist  
solution.  

Wanda is one of the most  
vivid portraits in all Lesbian  
literature, but with important  
differences. In contrast to the  
previous treatment of Lesbi-  
ans in literature, she and Beth  
are not solely viewed in terms  
of bedroom issues. Piercy has  
created a novel which tran-  
scends the usual structure in  
American literature of one  
male hero who confronts the  
violence around him and  
extracts from that some ideas  
about the meaning of life.  
Small Changes with its  
collective persona distills our  
perceptions through the eyes  

of several characters. Wo-  
men’s love for women be-  
comes a part of the total  

vision, and hopefully Piercy  
and other women will contin-  
ue to refine the possibilities of  
art in that direction.  

Health  
Books  

Our Bodies, Ourselves by the  
Boston Women’s Health  
Collective, Simon and Schuster  
at Rag at Books, 636 E.  
17th.  

All aspects of gynecological  
care are covered in this edition  
of the book. Anatomy, VD,  
birth control, abortion and  
childbirth, menopause. Pre-  
ventative medicine chapters  
on exercise, self-defense against  
rape and nutrition. The  
book also deals with sexuality,  
deciding on whether to have  
children, improving our self-  
image, lesbianism, and  
personal relationships are  
covered.  

The Birth Control Handbook  
by members of the Montreal  
Health Press, Inc.: write for  
individual free copies (25c for  
postage) to P.O. Box 1000,  
Station “G”, Montreal 130,  
Quebec, CANADA. Some-  
times they are available at  
Together Books at the front  
door rack.  

“Authoritative readable infor-  
mation on birth control;  
conscious of the way birth  
control availability is affected  
by sexist, racist, and  
profit-oriented attitudes. It  
discusses the available and  

experimental methods of birth  

control, considers the pill an  
endocrinological insult to the  
female body but admits that  
it does work well. It is the  
most comprehensive hand-  
book on birth control in print.

Page 14

on the dark side of the moon

. Promises

I will meet you there
on the dark side of the moon
(the parts they've not touched)

I will tell you what’s inside me
about the sticks of dynamite
laid side by side

in all the beds I’ve ever slept in.
I open and close,

open and close,

and still sometimes
I am drawn back

I offer part reason part madness.

I want a marker somewhere
that will tell me where my home is.
I want to know that women love,

I am next to you
you've not seen me yet.
I am darker than you,

I am disguised.

I collect the barbed wire
Strung between my lovers.

I save it as proof

that only change will save us.

the Questions

What do you offer as proof?
morgan

The poetry which was submitted for this issue was huge -- in both
quality and quantity. Ellen Marie Bissert, editor of Thirteenth
moon, has contributed some excellent work. Women who have
possibly never published before are sending in their poems. If this
is a sign, it is a good one. Let it flow.

~Editor

searching the gravestones for my name.

I al

I collect the words that pass as meaningful;

Can you touch me when you're angry?
Will you tell me what has made you?
Will you meet me on the dark side of the moon?

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

I THINK THEY THINK

I think he doesn’t like me.

I think she wants him to leave me.
She wants me to be alone.

She wants to be me and not so alone.

I think they think I’m weird.

Everything I say is wrong so I may as well not say anything.
I think they think that it would be nice if I leave.

They’re only pretending to like me.

Maybe it would be good if I left.

I could stop thinking what they're thinking.

Margaret Stevenson

I've given up nailing my rusty shutters tight.

STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS

He’s gone,

Seven years now,
Who tended my
Fears and guilts
So tenderly.
They served him.

Cratered,

Like old ruins of rapacity
In these mountains,
Overgrown and hidden now.
And quiet.

Carol Hille

FOR SALE

What will all the birds do who depended on bits from the house
And those who plant their nest in the porch venetian blinds
When the cozy folds of this rotting house make way?

The dogs are unbearable

They are a reason to make the weeds grow in the garden

And Bootsie, jawless, cannot chew another bone

Without gratitude for another day.

Who will look toward your room and be afraid?

Those who love beauty as you?

I could stay home forever - there’s room to grow - already the
basement inspires like a cool vine promising aftertaste

What will the tools do with their new owner? A '49
Studebaker pick-up truck that doesn’t pass 30 until it sees
The light of country fields

The life I lived here that didn’t go anywhere

But away

The tidal wave that caught you is frozen beneath the earth.
Vita Lorelio

Lesbian Task Force Projects

Among the many projects
under way, the Lesbian Task
Force of NOW has begun two
consciousness-raising
groups. One group is for

women who are just coming
out (or women who are
beginning to define them-
selves as Lesbians). This
group meets Thursday nights
at 7:30 p.m. at 1545 Vine #7.
The other group is for all
women of any sexual orienta-
tion and will explore what it
means to be a woman and to
be sexual. This group meets
on Monday nights at 7:30
p.m. at 1545 Vine #7. All
women are welcome to attend
either group.

Another activity sponsored
by the Lesbian Task Force is a
women’s coffeehouse, held
the 4th Friday of every month
at Denver Free University (17th
& Park) at 9:00 p.m. Upcoming
events at the coffeehouse
include bingo night, Tarot and
palm reading, feminist music,
poetry, dancing, refreshments,
and possibly complete, homestyle meals. Fem-
inist and Lesbian materials
are also on sale at the
coffeehouse, and all women
are welcome.

Because large amounts of
time and money are needed
for educational and informa-
tional materials in the massive
gay effort to introduce and
pass gay antidiscrimination
bills in the 1975 Colorado
State Legislature, the Lesbian
Task Force has several fund-
raising events coming up. We
are sponsoring a dance at the
Oxford Hotel Saturday De-
cember 7th from 9 p.m. to 2
a.m. (band to be announced).
Also, we are raffling a 12”
portable TV for $1.00 donation
per ticket. Ticket donations
may be made to any Lesbian
Task Force member, at the
NOW office, and at Gay
Coalition. The drawing will be
held at 8:00 p.m. at the NOW
general meeting December
16th at Park Hill Congrega-
tional Church (26th & Leyden).
Your support of these events
will help ensure the dignity of
equal rights for gays in
Colorado.

Lesbian Task Force meet-
ings are held the 2nd and 4th
Wednesdays of every month
at 1538 Adams at 7:30 p.m.
All women are invited to
attend and participate. For
further information, call
935-6908 or 355-6432.

DES-Morning After Pill
PP, HEW Use Women

NEW HAVEN, Conn. (LNS)
--The Planned Parenthood
League of Connecticut in
conjunction with the Yale
Medical School has conduct-
ed experiments on 600 women
from across the state, to test
the “morning-after pill.” The
money used for the experi-
ment comes from a $132,000
grant from the Department of
Health, Education, and Wel-
fare.

Known to cause cancer in
laboratory animals and in the
children of women who have
taken it, the drug - diethylstil-
bestrol (DES) - contains a
massive dose of synthetic
estrogen, equivalent to a
four-year supply of birth
control pills.

Women in the experiment
are given a series of ten pills
containing 250 milligrams of
DES, which are taken during a
five-day period 24 to 72 hours
following intercourse.

DES has long been opposed
by women’s groups, health
and consumer organizations.
Evidence shows that it caused
cancer of the vagina and
cervix in at least 200 daugh-
ters whose mothers took it
during pregnancy to prevent
miscarriages. Twenty-four of
the young women are known
to have died as of July 1974.

The drug also causes
serious side effects in the
women who take the pills.
Besides the usual nausea,
vomiting, sweating and va-
ginal bleeding, a woman may
experience other side effects
linked to estrogens. Blood
clots, hypertension, migraine,
development of breast cysts,
loss of hair, hyperthyroid
conditions, diabetic reac-
tions, changes in eye pres-
sure, depression, and person-
ality changes have been
reported.

Even after DES was banned
from cattle feed in 1972 (the
ban was overturned in Jan-
uary 1974 on a technicality) it
was approved for “emergency
use” as a morning-after
contraceptive drug. The Food
and Drug Administration
(FDA) recommends its use

Page 15

only in extreme emergency
cases, such as rape, warning
that “it shouldn’t be consid-
ered as a method for birth
control with continuous and
frequently repeated therapy.”

However, testimony before
the Senate Subcommittee on
Health in 1973 reveals that the
unauthorized use of DES as a
contraceptive is widespread.
While doctors are supposed to
prescribe the drug only for
“emergency use,” there are no
limits on the doctors’ judge-
ment of exactly what consti-
tutes an emergency.

In addition, DES is ap-
proved for use in treating
diseases, including endome-
triosis - an abnormality of
the uterus - and, ironically,
cancer in the lining of the
uterus.

Eli Lilly of Indianapolis - the
largest single marketer of DES
for human use - correctly
predicted, after the FDA
ruling on emergency use:
“We don't expect this will

More on Page 17

in

Self Exam

for Breast Cancer

1. Sit or stand in front of your mirror, arms re-
laxed at your sides and look for any
changes in size, shape, contour. Also look
for puckering or dimpling of the skin and
changes in the surface of the nipples. Gently
press each nipple to see if any discharge
occurs.

2. Raise both arms over your head and look
for exactly the same things. Note differ-
ences since you last examined your breasts.

3. From there on you will be trying to find a
lump or thickening. Lie down on your bed,
put a pillow or bath towel under your left
shoulder and your left hand under your
head. With the fingers of your right hand
held flat, press gently against the breast
with small circular motions to feel the in-
ner, upper portion of your left breast,
starting at your breastbone and going out-
ward toward the nipple line. Also feel the
area around the nipple.

4. Now bring your left arm down to your side.
Still using the flat part of the fingers of your
right hand, feel under your left armpit.

5. Use the same gentle pressure to feel the
upper, outer portion of your left breast from
the nipple line to where your arm is resting.

6. Repeat the entire procedure, as described,
on the right breast using the left hand for
the examination.

7. And finally, feel the lower outer portion of
your breast, going from the outer part to
the nipple.

If you find a lump or thickening, leave it
alone until you see your doctor. Don't be
frightened. Most breast lumps or changes
are not cancer, but only a doctor can tell.

Page 16

LW at Ogden and receive a FREE minimal may

SURPLUS GEMS

THIS AD WORTH 10% DISCOUNT
towards all custom made jewelry

Lots of local aquamarine cut gems
and a limited supply of Bisbee turquoise
STUDENT UNION

BOX 27 • 2050 E. EVANS • UNIVERSITY OF DENVER
DENVER, COLORADO 80210 • 303/777-1950

Complete Line of Typesetting

Camera Ready

Jarrett’s PhotoComp

3828 So. Broadway
781-4802

newspapers forms newsletters books

CUSTOM MADE LEATHER
COSTUME JEWELRY

Inexpensive
Tear Gas Protection
Available

712% SO. PEARL ST. 722-3366

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

Publishers, Lawmakers Finally
See Sexism in Textbooks

Nancy Heine

“Examples of stereotyping
to be avoided: scatterbrained
female, fragile flower, god-
dess on a pedestal, catty
gossip, hen-pecking shrew,
apron-wearing mother, frus-
trated spinster...”

Editors at the McGraw-Hill
Book Co. have sharpened
their pencils and begun
attacking sexist educational
texts they publish. And
they're not alone. Other
publishers have joined the
battle.

According to studies on sex-role stereotyping in text-
books, plenty of editing is in
order. Though 51% of the US
population is female, the
studies discovered men far
outnumbering women in texts
at all grade levels. Women
who were presented were
shown as servile, fearful,
passive and dependent.

In a study of 554 elementary
readers, researcher Diane
Graebner found a ratio of
three boys to every two girls.
She determined that 75% of
all stories were about boys
and that boys made up 67.5%
of all illustrations. She found
that girls were depicted as
shallow and “mothers” invari-
ably wore skirts—even while
camping or hiking down the
Grand Canyon.

When the Women on Words
and Images (WWI) went
through 134 readers from 14
publishers, they found boys
outnumbering girls five to two
as lead characters in stories.
Their study uncovered six
biographies of females. In
mathematics books, WWI
found boys solving astronomy
and chemistry problems and
learning to buy stocks while
girls measured curtains and
bought flour.

An investigation of social
studies texts by Richard
O’Donnell revealed 83% of the
occupations described be-
longed to males and only 17%
to females. The occupations
for females included waitresses,
housewives, secretaries
and other service or home-ori-
ented jobs. Seventy-two
males had prestigious jobs
while only one female was
shown in a similar role.
O'Donnell never found a male
doing dishes, cleaning or
handling childcare duties.

Perhaps the most exhaust-
ive research on high school
civic texts was published in
the book “You Won’t Do”:
What Textbooks on US Gov-
ernment Teach High School
Girls. Dr. Jennifer Macleod,
research psychologist, and
Sandra Silver(wo)man, femin-
ist consultant, dissected eight
leading civics texts and found
little mention of women in the
US political process.

They discovered that illus-
trations vastly underrepre-
sented women. Whereas 51 to
73% of the pictures showed
only men, a scant 3 to 9%
showed only women. They
saw only two pictures of
women in nontraditional
roles—Senator Margaret
Chase Smith holding a bou-
quet of roses and Rep. Patsy
Mink throwing snowballs.

The researchers noted that
all political leaders were
drawn as male stick figures in
charts. In one book's intro-
ductory unit, “Understanding
Democracy,” a six-sketch
montage shows: a man
running for office; a man
reading about a male candi-
date; three men discussing
politics; a man watching a
three-man TV debate; a man
cheering a male candidate,
and a man voting.

Macleod and Silver(wo)man
found the reading matter no
less stereotyping. They un-
covered statements like: “the
ideal presidential candidate
is...an energetic member of
the male sex...Some day
perhaps, a Negro, a Jew, even
a woman, may have some
prospect of being the party
(presidential) nominee.”

While researchers, psycho-
logists and educators comb
textbooks for further evidence
of sex-role stereotyping, fed-
eral and state governments
have taken some steps to
eliminate the school book
sexism. Two bills which may
have some effect have already
been passed by Congress and
another is pending.

One of these bills, Title IX
of the Educational Amend-
ments of 1972, says that no
person on the basis of sex
shall “be subjected to dis-
crimination under any educa-
tional program” receiving fed-
eral funds. Whether or not this
covers the subject of text-
books has been a matter of
debate.

The New York Times noted
that Title IX failed “to cover
discriminatory curriculum
materials, such as textbooks
that contain sex bias.” The
Department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare (HEW) added
that any attempt to ban the
use of such materials “would
raise grave constitutional
questions under the First
Amendment.”

According to Wilma
Scott Heide, past president of
the National Organization for
Women (NOW), “selection of
sexist texts by state action
(via the public school boards)
is a denial of individual First
Amendment rights of freedom
of speech by excluding,
derogating, and/or stereotyp-
ing women.”

Dr. Anne Scott, NOW
Legislative Vice President has
observed that, as is, there is
nothing in Title IX “that makes
a school system accountable
to its required statement of
non-discrimination.”

Another bill dealing with
sexist texts, the Women’s
Educational Equity Act of
1973, was recently signed by
President Ford. The bill
authorizes $30 million per year
to “encourage the develop-
ment of new and improved
curriculums” and to imple-
ment community-oriented ed-
ucational programs on women
in American history.

Senator Charles Percy has
introduced another bill to
Congress that would ensure
even more funding to “help
women gain their place as
equal beneficiaries of socie-
ty.” Percy’s bill, the Women’s
Equal Educational Opportunity
Act, is still in committee.

But while the federal
government continues decision-
making over the matter,
eight state governments have
already outlawed sexism in
education and texts. For
instance, in California sexist
textbooks must be phased out
by 1975.

And publishing houses
have begun ferreting out sexist
references in their books. J.B.
Lippincott, the D.C. Heath
Co. and Harper and Row all
have said they are carefully
examining their manuscripts
for offensive sex-role stereo-
typing.

McGraw-Hill, which has
recently published an 11-page
“Guidelines for Equal Treat-
ment of the Sexes” stated:
“We realize that the language
of literature cannot be pre-
scribed, but we want to
encourage a greater freedom
for all individuals to pursue
their interests and realize their
potentials.”

RIP BOOKSTORE
737 E. 17th Ave.
Labor Mechanic’s SECTION
On GAY rights

ALL BOOKS 20% Off AT
All TIMES

Monday

Tuesday - Saturday (32°F)

Letters Home...

From Page 4

FRUSTRATION IN ASPEN

Dear People,

I am not good with words,  
but I would like to describe to  
you my frustration after  
attending several meetings of  
the Aspen Women’s Caucus.

I entered a plush office with  
six or seven rather wealthy  
women sitting and talking. I  
had just come from the First  
Annual Colorado Women’s  
Festival in Denver, at which I  
was extremely impressed by  
the strong feelings of sister-  
hood or woman power or  
both. I wanted to extend these  
feelings to them and give a  
thorough description of the  
festival. I lost their interest  
after about one minute.

These are women who think  
that looking natural is a new  
style of make-up application.

The majority of jobs in  
Aspen “for women” are maids  
and waitresses, emphasizing  
hard fast work, low pay and  
lots of bullshit. The women of  
the Caucus haven't had to take  
these jobs - they feel no need  
to worry about, discuss, much  
less fight for the causes of a  
poor sector of women.

What depressed me most  
was their competition for the  
floor, to hear themselves  
speak of themselves. They  
want this more than to hear  
new ideas. I’m about five to  
ten years younger than most of  
them and have no kids to  
discuss.

The really poor part of the  
whole thing is that Aspen is  
full of world and country-wide  
travelers who bring ideas, but  
if they aren’t a big name or  
look influential, they sure the  
hell don’t get any attention  
from the more long-term  
Aspen Women’s Caucus-ers.

I'd really like to start a new  
group of NOW in Aspen. I've  
met several others who are  
interested. Rather than sitting  
on the sidelines listening to  
the Aspen Women’s Caucus  
people discuss their affect-  
atious problems of make-up  
and men we could be acting -  
filing discrimination suits.  
(The men here simply say “We  
don't hire women.” and “I hate  
to even be asked the ques-  
tion.”)

Aspen is set in some  
beautiful mountains, but that  
is the only good thing about  
it. The rest is damn sour  
grapes for everyone who  
works for a living and even  
some who don’t.

Carolyn M. Irwin  
Member of NOW

GOOD WORK!

Dear BMR,

You're doing something  
very important with BMR.  
What you extend to Colorado  
women is invaluable, and I  
hope their support shows you  
eventually.

I hope to be able to  
contribute more later... I am  
new to Denver and am still  
getting my bearings. I never  
thought I would enjoy being  
stared at, but it’s a great trip  
when I walk into Jerry’s to get  
the latest BMR (and Playgirl -  
I get Amazon Quarterly at  
home): all the guys really give  
me the once-over. They’re just  
jealous - they don’t under-  
stand!

Keep on truckin’ women -  
there are clamoring readers  
out here who need you!

In Sappho’s Love,  
gingerlox

~ esoteric

READER BLASTS BMR

Dear BMR,

In view of the feminist  
school meeting I attended at  
BMR, the Denver Post article  
on BMR, several editorials by  
Janet Sergi (Ed. note: col-  
umns by individuals are not  
editorials) and Linda Fowler  
which appeared in BMR I  
would like to say:

1.) I do not believe in some  
“pie-in-the-sky”  
the “feminine principle.” I do  
not like cryptic generalizations.  
I do not like being categorized--  
“All women are close to  
the earth, cooperative, sup-  
portive, expressive, non-de-  
structive.” I am a person!?! I  
would like to think I am a  
person and I would like the  
right to define myself. Please  
stop being so chauvinistic!

2.) I feel the Denver Post  
article was basically accurate.  
I do feel sorry that BMR’s  
problems--once only her  
problems--are now public  
knowledge.

3.) I disagree with the  
statement (in one of your  
editorials) that “Lesbians are  
women whose primary com-  
mitment is to other women.”  
This may be true, but not  
necessarily so. Are all Les-  
bians feminists? Is sexual  
behavior the center of life;  
does it determine everything  
else? What about friendships,  
feelings, and ideas? I respect  
Lesbians as people and those  
that are working in the  
feminist movement. However,  
I do not like being made to  
feel put down or guilty  
because I’m not Lesbian. You  
(BMR) have created a hier-  
archy 1.) Lesbian Feminists  
2.) feminists 3.) non-femin-  
ists.

4.) I do feel it is necessary  
for most American women,  
Lesbian or not, to learn to  
co-exist with men because  
we can't get away from them.  
That's why I believe a feminist  
school should be both boys  
and girls together so girls can  
actively and aggressively learn  
to cope with boys so they  
won't be destroyed and boys  
learn to live and play with girls  
without exploiting and  
hurting them. BMR has  
already created a hierarchy of  
schools: 1.) feminist 2.)  
non-sexist. Will you need to  
carry the hierarchy further? 1.)  
daughters of Lesbian Femin-  
ists only, 2.) daughters of  
feminists 3.) sons and  
daughters of feminists 4.)  
daughters and sons of any-  
body!

5.) I do not feel that there is  
only one perfect man who is  
perfectly non-sexist. I do feel,  
however, that there are men  
who have qualities of cooper-  
ation, expression, support-  
iveness, and who really try not  
to be destructive to women. I  
do not feel that there is only  
one perfect woman, Lesbian  
or non-Lesbian, who is  
perfectly non-sexist either. In  
fact, I have met some real  
women pigs--Lesbian and  
non-Lesbian. I have been  
deeply hurt and exploited by  
women, Lesbian and non-les-  
bian.

6.) I feel some of the  
statements that have ap-  
peared in BMR are female  
chauvinism. “You know  
women are all alike--besides  
being born with vaginas and  
clitorises they all come out of  
the womb stamped in pink  
‘feminine principle.’ Then  
there are little pink stamps all  
over them which say, COOP-  
ERATIVE, NON-DESTRUCT-  
IVE, CLOSE TO EARTH,  
EXPRESSIVE, PROTECTIVE.”  
Yvonne Stith  
(ADMITTED NON-LESBIAN)

POST REPORTER SAYS WHAT HE  
REALLY THINKS ABOUT BMR

Ed. Note: The following is a personal note to Ivan Goldman  
following his Denver Post article of Sept. 8, and the reply received  
which was written on Post stationery!

Dear Mr. Goldman,

I find your lack of integrity appalling. Your misrepresenta-  

Sept. 11

tions were both numerous and disgusting.

Oct. 1, 1974  
Dear Ms. Fowler,

I just returned from vacation to receive your little note. It was so  
moving I thought I'd let you know that the CIA is out to get you.  
You're that important. So watch the bastards. They're devious.  
I'd tell you more, but I’ve jeopardized myself too much already.

And, just in case you still don’t understand (which I’m sure is  
quite possible) enjoy your paranoia. It’s all you've got:

Best,

Ivan Goldman  
Reporter

HEW EXPERIMENTS

WITH DES

From Page 7

make a significant change in  
Lilly’s sales or profits.”  
Presently, the company faces  
a lawsuit brought by a Royal,  
Michigan woman who has  
vaginal cancer because her  
mother took DES during her  
pregnancy.

Clinics are allowed to  
administer DES for emergency  
contraceptive use - but sup-  
posedly only in extremely  
controlled and carefully fol-  
lowed-up medical experi-  
ments. Yet it is reported that  

follow-up procedures are in-  
adequate, and prior warnings  

are few. Women are not.  

warned of the cancer risk to  
themselves or to the fetus,  
should the pill fail.

Although all of the women  
in the Connecticut experiment  
must consent to an abortion  
should the conception occur,  
the service is not provided by  
Planned Parenthood, stated  
its Connecticut director,  
Kenneth Pruett. Only advice  
will be offered.

NEWS  
FROM AROUND  

THE COUNTRY

a column

Chocolate Waters

Police Attack Women, Then Try to Charge the Women With  
Battery-- Two employees of the Woman's Building in LA were beaten  
up by three peace officers in an “unprovoked attack” early in Aug.  
The officers then tried to charge the women with battery at a  
hearing attended by 100 supporters on Sept. 12. Cheryl Swanneck,  
one of the feminists involved, gives this account: “I had been  
welding. A police car began to cruise alongside of us when we  
were locking up. We said we worked in the building and went in to  
get our things... We thought the police had left but they suddenly  
banged on the door and threatened to “break it down”... When  
they tried to take Marge Elliot out to the parking lot, I told her she  
didn’t have to go. An officer grabbed Margie and threw her face  
down and then began to strangle her. Another hit her on the back.  
I began to scream; they dropped Margie, lifted me off the steps,  
crashed me down on the steps, broke my glasses and began to  
strangle me. I passed out and fell down the steps. They tortured  
me with, “Are you going to cooperate now, little girl?” I was crying  
hysterically. * The police report of the incident said that two  
possible burglary suspects who “looked like men” were reported  
“looking suspicious.” The report further stated that one woman  
(Swanneck) was asked to step outside; she refused and struck the  
officer. A wristlock was then used on the woman. It was further  
reported in the police account that as a result of the struggle one  
officer sustained an injury to his right middle finger.” * The  
hearing determined that no charges should be brought against the  
women, but Swanneck and Elliot are filing their own civil suit  
against the three policemen involved. (Sister, Sept. and Oct. '74)

Jumping Rope May Be Hazardous to Your Health!-- Physicians  
say that the nerves of the limbs or of the spine may be paralyzed  
by jumping or skipping rope. The delicate nerves of the foot are  
also liable to suffer permanent injury from the jar of jumping, and  
the amusement puts a strain on other nerves of the body which  
may cause paralysis. (The Ruined Maid by Geoffrey Eley,  
England, ’70)

The Times Has A Limited Vocabulary-- Women in Washington  
recently protested the advertising policies of the Seattle Times  
after the newspaper singled out and removed the phrase “Lesbian  
literature” from a list of material advertised by the “Madwoman”  
feminist bookstore. The Times then charged the bookstore $2.50  
extra for the editing. About 50 women and children marched  
through the downtown area singing songs and carrying signs  
such as “Lesbians Are Everywhere-- But In The Times,” “The  
Times Has a Limited Vocabulary,” and “The Times Is Behind The  
Times.” (LNS and Pandora)

It Only Took Two Centuries-- After 210 years of publishing, the  
Hartford Courant in Conn. finally named a woman (Laura Johnson)  
as director. (Media Report to Women, Oct. 1, '74)

Creep of the Month Award-- goes to Red Fenwick for his recent  
column in the Denver Post called “Protestors Boil at Pay Toilet.”  
Proving his minimal understanding of the Women's Movement,  
Ridin’-the-Range-Red disparaged the WM by reducing the issues  
to matters of lighting cigarettes and integrating public toilets (a  
ridiculous notion promulgated by the male media for their own  
ends). Further demonstrating his total ignorance on the subject,  
Fen then went on to claim the movement had “reached a climax 2  
years ago.” A “believer in male equality” himself, Mr. Wick’s  
supposedly satirical column was replete with insults to women  
and was extremely offensive to anyone with intelligent  
sensibilities. Personally, I think the issue of pay toilets is a low  
level priority in relationship to the goals of the Women’s  
Movement, but to the male media the toilet issue was just their  
cup of tea. I’m not surprised--that’s usually where heads are at  
anyway. (Denver Post, Oct. 13, '74)

All Male Senate Hurts Women-- With not one woman in the U.S.  
Senate, the men voted 50 to 34 to deny Health, Education and  
Welfare funds to be used by women for abortions. With Bella  
Abzug battling in the House, however, a similar amendment was  
defeated. Voting to deny abortion funding were such “friends” as  
McGovern, Eagleton, McIntyre, Montoya, Pastore, Byrd, Church,  
Hartke, Huddleston, Mansfield, McGee, and Muskie. Other  
senatorial “friends” not voting were Tunney, Ribicoff, Bayh,  
Bentson, and Nelson. The bill will now go to conference to resolve  
the difference between the House and Senate votes. (The Woman  
Activist, Sept. 15, '74) Quotation marks around the word “friends”  
are mine. WA, oddly enough, did not see any contradictions in the  
use of the word to describe these senators.

A. A. VILLAGE STRIPPER  
1930 SO. BROADWAY  

DENVER, COLORADO 80210  

[303] 744-9911  

SAY BIG MAMA RAG  
FOR 10% OFF

Br anse

Page 18

-CONTRA-
CEPTIVES

From Page 7
training staff puts together a
variety of workshops and
seminars related to human
sexuality, family planning and
management. Some of the
programs offered can be taken
for credit at the University of
Northern Colorado. The Planned
Parenthood people feel
that an important aspect of
their work involves public
education. To that end, the
agency will furnish brochures,
films and speakers not only to
explain contraceptives and
family planning services, but
also to assist groups studying
topics like the population
problem or human sexuality.
Developing Finances

Obviously, an agency offering
this range of services
needs a broad financial base.
And Rocky Mountain Planned
Parenthood, a non-profit or-
ganization, is developing that.
Services such as problem
pregnancy counseling, abor-
tion clinics, vasectomy coun-
seling, and vasectomy clinics
are supported totally by the
persons using them. Almost
all other functions of the
agency are paid for by a
combination of funds. An
important part of the financ-
ing comes from patient fees in
the contraceptive clinic. State
and federal (HEW) monies add
supplemental funding, which
is rarely guaranteed for more
than a year at a time. Private
tax-deductible donations
make up the remainder of the
income. Despite these various
sources of financial assist-
ance, RMPP consistently

seeks additional funding to

meet the increasing demand
for family planning services in
Colorado.

Being a private agency and
receiving some government
aid puts RMPP in a unique
position. The fact that it is
private means that Planned
Parenthood can change pol-
icies more quickly with fewer
bureaucratic hassles than a
public agency. Also, the
staff and administration
feel freer to be innovative and
can expect less public re-
action because the agency is
private. This is an important
point when one works in an
area as intimate and personal
as family planning. However,

a positive result of RMPP
using HEW monies is that the
consumers of Planned Par-
enthood services have the
opportunity to be on a
Participant Advisory Council
(PAC). It is a channel for
patients to tell the agency
what they feel and how they
would prefer clinics to func-
tion. Any regular contracept-
ive patient can ask to be on
the PAC for her clinic.

Human Component

The PAC is just one of the
human components running
Planned Parenthood. There
are also administrators and
staff who are paid to keep the
whole operation going on a
consistent basis. They are the
ones that patients come in
contact with, so they can truly
make a clinic visit dreadful,
tolerable or positive. Volun-
teers who work in clinics or
serve on administrative
boards supply valuable kinds
of support to the entire RMPP
system.

All these persons have two
common commitments. The
first is to free women and men
from the burden of unplanned
or unwanted births, no matter
what their income or lifestyle
or race or culture happens to
be. That means the patient
decides if she or he will have
any children and if so, when
children are desirable and how
many are wanted. The second
one is to assist people in
understanding and taking
healthy care of their bodies.

These are not easy commit-
ments. There are many taboos
and misconceptions and re-
sentments that make those
commitments difficult. How-
ever, Colorado residents con-
tinue to come to Rocky Moun-
tain Planned Parenthood in
increasing numbers, with
needs for more varied services
than ever before. So the
people working at RMPP try to
improve those services and
deliver them in the most

efficient and personable way
possible.

“LONG TIME COMING

E Subscriptions: Box 16!
Station &

Montreal Hot 347
Quebec, Can:

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 5

GET FREE VD HANDBOOK: WRITE

PO BOX 1000, STATION “G”,
QUEBEC, CANADA

“The largest area of the
HANDBOOK is devoted to
gonorrhea so that ‘we can rid
ourselves of this unnecessary
and unpleasant complication
to sexual freedom’. Gonorrhea
is transmitted through vagi-
nal, anal or oral-gential
intercourse and presently
afflicts 2,000,000 Americans a
year. Eighty percent of the
women infected with gonor-
rhea have no symptoms for
the first few weeks or months
until complications set in,
while men have symptoms in
three to five days. Thus the
need for partners to inform
each other becomes acute....

“When medicine is pre-
scribed, we have a right to
know what the doctor found,
the diagnosis, and the drug
and dosage recommended for
treatment.

encourages us to refuse

Menstrual Extraction Controversial

Menstrual extraction, or
endometrial aspiration, is a
process by which the uterine
lining is removed from a
woman at the time when her
monthly period is due. A four
to six mm cannula is
introduced through suction
pump, and uterine lining is
removed all at once. The
process takes about 60
seconds. If menstrual extrac-
tion is performed within 5 to
10 days after the date the
menstrual period is due, the
menstrual lining of the uterus
and any fertilized egg which
might have been implanted
there will be removed.

There are several controver-
sies surrounding the use of
this technique. First, there is
considerable discussion as to
whether the technique should
be used at all. Supporters
argue that (1) the use of the
cannula simplifies the abor-
tion procedure by virtually

The HANDBOOK.

A Non-Profit

Feminist Newspaper
Not For Women Only

345 N Bosworth-Chicago, IL 60614

treatment from a doctor who
will not accompany it with a
thorough explanation. It then
devotes four pages to the
types of medicines, dosages
and methods of administration
(injection, pills, etc.) most
effective. The negative effects
of certain drugs, alternative
medicines for those with
allergies, and medicines to be
avoided during pregnancy are
also detailed...

“There is a beautiful effort
to rid the HANDBOOK of
sexism and racism. Doctors
are not ‘he’ but ‘he or she’ and
a woman or a man’s sexual
partner is a ‘sexual partner’ or
‘lover’ not a specific sex.
Heterosexual and homosexual
relationships are dealt with
side by side with no bias
indicated. And drugs harmful
to specific people (such as

eliminating the need for
dilation of the cervix and
anesthesia. (2) Menstrual ex-
traction represents a faster
and less expensive method of
terminating a possible preg-
nancy test. Opponents of the
procedure argue that (1) the
technique is still experimen-
tal, (2) it is not painless and
women who have not had
children often require anes-
thesia, (3) it is not totally
reliable as an abortion tech-
nique, (4) many of the women
who undergo the technique
are not pregnant, (5) there is
not enough evidence to
determine the rates of uterine
perforation and infection, and

to determine the long-range

side effects.

The second controversy
involves the question of who
should perform menstrual
extraction. One perspective
claims that the procedure is
only safe if it is performed by
a qualified doctor, whereas

MONTREAL 130,

sulfa is to black people with a
certain blood enzyme defi-
ciency) are noted with every
treatment recommendation.

“Perhaps the only criticism
of the HANDBOOK would be
in the attitude of total reliance
on the medical profession for
treatment of such things as
monilia and trichomonas. The
self-help clinic approach to
yeast infections would be
recommendation of vinegar
douches and yogurt applica-
tions to the vagina to return
the vaginal lining to its natural
acid state and bacterial/yeast
balance, not conducive to
yeast overgrowth. But since
a majority of people still rely
on institutions, education
ourselves to deal with
those institutions is also an important step
toward receiving
better medical care.”
OFF OUR BACKS

Birth Control

others believe that the pro-
cedure is simple enough that
anyone trained in the tech-
nique can perform it.

The third area of discussion
concerns the use of menstrual
extraction as a method of
controlling the monthly men-
strual cycle. Menstrual
regulation eliminates the in-
convenience and discomforts
of the monthly period as well
as functioning as a contra-
ceptive measure. However,
even those who advocate the
use of menstrual extraction as
an abortion technique caution
against the unknown side
effects of its repeated use.
THE NEW WOMAN’S
SURVIVAL CATALOG

WOMEN
&

THERAPY

From Page 1

an emphasis, PROCESS as
being the distinguishing factor.

In addition to her writing,
she has been instrumental in
the formation of the Women’s
Institute for Alternative Psy-
chotherapy which will begin
around the first of the year.
Besides establishing new
methods of training and
theory, she wants to develop
new styles of organization for
women. One example of a
feminist approach to organi-
zation is consensual decision
making. In contrast to the
usual hierarchical method being
used to make decisions,
women can learn the skills of
group dynamics allowing
them to share equally in the
decision-making process.
This approach, of course,
requires a centeredness in
people who know who they
are and feel good about that.

Anne Wilson Schaef’s work
has to be one of the most
exciting in the mental health
field. She is not only willing to
challenge the sacred cows,
but she brings to her work an
underlying strength from
within. Hers is a philosophy
that emphasizes the essence
of women and sees their
whole being on a level of
dignity essential to spiritual
as well as psychological
growth.

Announcements

WIT HOUSE needs blankets!!  
With cold weather coming on  
and nights getting colder the  
need is immediate. If you have  
one or two blankets you can  
part with please take them by  
WIT at 1895 Lafayette. They  
and you will be appreciated;  
nobody likes to be cold!  
CREATIVE HEALTH SERVICES is  
willing to organize groups for  
learning self-health examination  
(pelvics) and other health care.  
If you are interested in such a  
group or would like to recommend  
other topics for groups, contact  
Creative Health Services, 321-0567.  
Creative Health also offers CR  
groups and workshops on women  
and our problems in today’s society.  
SIBYL CHILD - Emerging feminist  
journal from the voices of women’s  
diverse lifestyles, feelings, politics  
and personal myths, seeking  
articles, interviews, plays,  
poetry, fiction, graphics, cartoons.  
Submit to: Sibyl Child, c/o Pat  
Gayet, 12618 Billington Rd.,  
Silver Springs, MD 20904. Phone:  
301-384-4524. In need of  
contributions to send journal to press.  
WOMANSPIRIT - new feminist  
quarterly magazine states journal  
will be “consciousness raising in  
the spiritual sphere of women’s  
culture.” Currently looking for  
work of women writers and artists  
dealing with feminist inner  
experience with a psychic,  
religious and philosophical  
emphasis. Write to: Woman-  
spirit, Box 263, Wolf Creek,  
Oregon 97497 to contribute or  
subscribe - $6 for four issues.  
BIG MAMA RAG is still offering  
a free subscription to anyone who  
can find at least two or more  
new distribution outlets for us.  
This involves picking up papers  
at the office and approaching the  
prospective outlets yourself.  
Possible outlets are book stores,  
record shops, clinics, local  
businesses, community centers,  
churches etc.

Classifieds

Christmas portraits of friends,  
lovers by Babs. Call 733-2023

WOMEN AND LITERATURE, An  
Annotated Bibliography of  
Women Writers. Primarily fiction.  
“Excellent”- Amazon Quarterly.  
“Well worth the price”- Spokes-  
woman. $1.50 Sense and Sensi-  
bility Collective. 57 Kilery St.,  
Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

WANT WOMAN TO SHARE MY  
HOME- 2 children acceptable; 2  
bedrooms available, share  
kitchen, family room, garage,  
washer & dryer. $50.00 per room  
plus $10.00 utilities. Arvada. call  
423-3923

FOR SALE: 74 Vega Hatchback;  
low mileage, 4 speed trans., good  
condition $2,395, firm. Call 733-  

Big Mama Rag will give a free one  
year subscription to anyone who  
can secure two new distribution  
outlets for us. Call BMR office for  
details or to report your success;  
322-2010.

Women’s music: Olivia Records  
(music by and for women) has  
released their first 45. Side one is  
Meg Christian singing “Lady” side  
two, Cris Williamson “If It  
Weren't for the Music”. $1.50  
plus 30c mailing. Order from  
Olivia Records, Box 1784 Main  
City Station, Wash., D.C. 20013.  
CRAFTSPEOPLE: Seeking your  
quality hand-crafted products to  
market.

WRITE IN! Virginia Woodard if  
the Media Task Force is asking  
everyone to watch the KOA evening  
program called “Area Four” and  
write in their comments to the  
station. The show is co-hosted by  
Pearlie Ray Laff and Bill Barker.  
Comments may be sent to  
R.M. Schafbuch or Manny  
Cantu at 1044 Lincoln St.,  
Denver, 80217.

BIG MAMA WRITERS: Please  
come in to the office and pick  
up our guidelines for article  
submissions or use the ones  
we sent you a few months  
ago! Editors, typesetters, and  
lay-out personnel are going  
crazy trying to deal with  
articles in the manner in  
which they have been submitted.

A WOMAN'S GALLERY and  
feminist bookstore has recently  
opened in Santa Fe. Women’s  
arts and crafts welcomed. A  
Woman’s Gallery, 1008 Canyon  
Road, Santa Fe, N. Mex. Phone:  
988-4211.  
WOMAN’S PLACE - new  
program on Channel 2 (cable)  
which intends to explore the  
changing roles of women... an  

informative show to identify  
the needs and special problems  
of women, as well as recognize  
creativity and achievements.  
Future shows to include information  
on politics, the law, and dealing  
with being a woman; provided  
through the public access  
channel in Orlando, Fla. by  
Orange Cablevision.

OLIVIA RECORDS, women’s  
recording company from  
Washington, D.C., needs a  
distributor for the Denver  
area. It must be a woman and  
someone who is planning to  
be in Denver for a while. They  
will want her to distribute  
their 45, Meg Christian’s new  
album, and the record after  
that. This is a paid position.  
Contact Olivia Records, Box  
1784, Main City Station,  
Washington, D.C. 20013.

RAFFLE DRAWING: Drawing  
for 12” portable TV on 8:00  
p.m. December 16th at Park  
Hill Congregational Church  
(26th and Leyden). NOW  
General Meeting, Tickets  

$1.00 donation each; dona-  

tions may be made to any  
Lesbian Task Force member,  
at the NOW Office, and at Gay  
Coalition.

WOMAN TO WOMAN - a book  
of poetry and drawings by  
women. It is dedicated to all  
the women who have pieces of  
themselves tucked away in  
their bureau drawers, with  
neither the hours of privacy,  
encouragement, self-confidence  
or extra resources to bring it  
all together - to make  
themselves whole. The Wo-  
men’s Press Collective. 5251  

Broadway, Oakland, Cal.  
94618 ($2.50)  
EXPERIMENTS IN FILM II,  

funded by National Endow-  
ment for the Arts, is an  
independent program seeking  
16mm optical and silent films  
from throughout the country,  
color or black and white, with  
a maximum running time of 30  
minutes. Experiments con-  
sists of three programs to take  
place at the Omaha Magic  
Theatre Foundation, Omaha,  
Neb. Second Program: Women  
filmmakers from throughout  
the country, deadline Nov.  
30th. Third program: Film-  
makers from throughout the  
country, deadline March 1,  
1975 to be mailed to: Jodie H.  
Lowe, Project Director, West-  

463 West St. - Apt.  
H-722, New York, N.Y. 10014.

Old Timey Five String Banjo  
Lessons. beginning;  
professional, frailing, claw-  
hammer, early finger picking  
styles. Reasonable. Pam, 777-  
5714 days.

NEED A ROOMMATE OR A  
PLACE TO SHARE? Rooms for  
One More, Inc. Roommate Referral  
Service, reasonable rates, fine  
folks, call 861-7666.

Wanted: A place to live in  
Denver, with other women - under  
$100 per month (preferably in the  
Capitol Hill area) call Linda 449-  
1839.

Wanted: Experienced bass guitar  
or organist, also vocals. Call B.S.  
Sugar 458-7472.

TELEPHONE TAPPED? CAR  
FOLLOWED? OFFICE BUGGED?  
Countermeasure equipment  
available at BMR, $1.00. Security,  
Box 671 BMR, Westwood, N.J. 07675.

Free puppies, adorable. Someone  
left them on the doorstep. Call  
KCFR 753-2691.

Page 19

Help Services

ABORTION COUNSELING  
Alternatives, Inc.

Creative Health Services  
Ministerial Council  
Abortion Referral and  
Counseling Service  
Boulder Valley Clinic

BIRTH CONTROL  
Planned Parenthood  
Westside Office (P.P.)

COMMUNICATION  
Big Mama Rag  
Institute Mt. West  
NOW Newsletter

COMMUNITY RESOURCES

Capital Hill Tenants Union  
Common Market Food Coop  
St. Andrews Church  
Boulder Gay Lib.

Denver Gay Coalition  
Rape/Help Lines

S.E. Denver Neighborhood  
Services Bureau

High St. Rape Awareness  
Boulder Hotline

EMPLOYMENT  
Better Jobs for Women  
Womanpower

HEALTH SERVICES  
Colo. Gen. Hosp. Clinics  
Creative Health Services  
Colo. Springs Women’s  
Health

Denver Metro Health Clinic  
Hip Health Center  
People’s Clinic  
Boulder Valley Clinic

LEGAL SERVICES  
Women’s Law Co-op  
Colorado Divorce Council  
Big Mama Rag

LITERATURE  
Book House  
Radical Information Project  
Militant

WOMEN’S GROUPS  
Ft. Collins Women’s Center  
Women in Transition  
Lesbian Resource Center  
National Organization for  
Women  
Women in Community Service  
Denver Women’s Resource  
Center

Women’s Resource Center, DU

Boulder Women’s Resource  
Center

CU Women’s Coalition

Taproot

SUPPORT

MOVERS

LIGHT LOCAL HAULING  
APPLIANCES

FURNITURE  
AND

OTHER WORLDLY

GOODS

DEPENDABLE AND

REASONABLE

831-9197 anytime

1345 Spruce St.,  
Boulder  
4645 E. Colfax

1400 Lafayette  
2346 Broadway

2030 E. 20th Ave.  
32nd & Zuni

1724 Gaylord  
2096 Emerson

send to 4805 E. Kentucky Ave.  
Apt. 206, Denver 80222 by  
1st of month

1460 Pennsylvania  
1100 Champa  
2015 Glenarm

1450 Pennsylvania

227 Clayton  
3401 High

1545 Tremont  
2475 Broadway #12  
Boulder

4200 E. 9th Ave.  
4645 E. Colfax

409 E. Fontanero  
645 Bannock

1304 Elati

999 Alpine, Boulder  
2346 Broadway

1026 Bannock  
1115 Broadway  
1724 Gaylord

5174 Broadway  
737 E. 17th  
1203 California

629 Howes St.  
1895 Lafayette  
Boulder

1400 Lafayette  
623-4349

1545 Tremont  
1419 Pine

UMC 181  
8712 Baseline, Boulder

321-0567  
757-4442

255-2009  
442-5160

388-4777  
458-5985

322-2010  
573-6394

825-2329

255-9775  
492-8567  
831-8838

321-8191  
571-1265  
447-1665

244-4189  
442-5468

394-8581  
321-0567

574-6666  
222-3344  
449-6050  
442-5160

892-0904  
534-2842  
322-2010

789-1008  
825-7413  
623-2625

255-2435  
494-5306

831-7707  
222-0870  
753-3511  
447-9670

492-7735  
494-6161

OUR ADVERTISERS

Chancellor  
Apts.

for the  
Gay community  
buffets

one bedrooms  
penthouses

$140 up  
1599 Williams  
399-1555

A FEMINIST CALENDAR OF EVENTS

National NOW  
Board meeting  

Boulder Gay Lib  
coming out  
meetings. Sexuality Group  
7:30, 1545 Vine #7  
‘Sexuality & the Sacred’  
Dr. Doris Havice  
U.M.C.  

156 Bidr.  

Brown Bag  
Lunch 11-1 (child care provided)  
1419 Pine St.  
Boulder Women’s Resource Center  

-Boulder Gay Lib  
Women's meetings  

-Legal seminar  
‘Finding a good Lawyer’  

6pm Y.W.C.A.  
no admission price, free child care  

-Film ‘Salt of the Earth’ 8pm Chew Chew 132 Bidr.  

Workshop on  
uterine & breast cancer 11-1:30  
Y.W.C.A. free, free child care  
-Lesbian Taskforce meetings  
7:30 1538 Adams  

Brown Bag  
Lunch 11-1 (child care provided)  
1419 Pine St.  
Bldr. Women's Resource Center  
-Coming out  
Group 1545 Vine St. #7  
“Matriarchies”  
Dr. Shirley Hill Witt  
4pm WMC  
157 Bidr.  

Women Alive  
K.C.F.R. 7pm  

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

Name:  
Address:  
Zip:  

BIG MAMA RAG’S 2nd  
birthday party  
8pm The Oxford Hotel  
16th & Wazee  

Lesbian Taskforce meetings  
7:30 pm 1538 Adams  

Boulder Gay Lib  
coming out meetings  
-Sexuality Group  
7:30 1545 Vine #7  

Job Direction  
Workshop  
Tues. 10-1  
Y.W.C.A. free, free child care  
Dr. Sue Armitage ‘Women in History’  
UMC 156  
-Boulder Gay Lib meetings  

* Brown Bag  

Lunch 11-1 1419 Pine St. Bldr.  
Women’s Resource Center  
Child care provided.  
‘The Woman’s Film’ 8pm  
UMC 157 Bidr.  
Job direction workshop 10-4  
Y.W.C.A. free; free child care  
-N.O.W. general meeting 7pm  
8:15 panel on women & religion  
Park Hill Congregational Church  
“Collective Bargaining. What is in it for Faculty Women?” 4pm  
UMC 305 Bidr.  
Job direction workshop 10-4  
Y.W.C.A. free, free child care  

Brown Bag  
Lunch 11-1 1419 Pine St. Bldr.  
Women's Resource Cntr.  
Child care provided.  

Coming out  
Group 1545 Vine St. #7  

Lecture & film by  
Nan Boberhoc  
on Women in the VFW  
U.M.C. 422 Bidr.  

Job direction  
workshop 10-1  
Y.W.C.A. free; free child care  

Coffeehouse 9pm  
D.F.V. (17th & Park)  

Women Alive  
K.C.F.R. 7pm  

Boulder Gay Lib  
coming out meetings  

Sexuality Group  
7:30 1545 Vine St.  

Boulder Gay Lib  
Women's meetings  

Dr. Ester Zago  
Italian Dept.  
‘Women in the Renaissance’  
4pm U.M.C. 156  

Women Alive  
K.C.F.R. 7pm  

Slide presentation  
‘Sex Role Stereotyping in  
Children's Books’ 12:15  
May D&F Auditorium  

Sexuality Group  
1545 Vine St. #7  
7:30pm  

Big Mama Rag  
1724 Gaylord Street  
Denver, Colorado 80206  

Mini workshop  
on sex role stereotyping in  
children’s books  
12:15 May D&F Auditorium  

Dr. Marthia Gimenez lecture  
U.M.C. 156  
Brown Bag  
Lunch 11-1 1419 Pine St. Boulder  
Women's Resource Center  
Child care provided  

NOW Board  
Meeting 1st Unitarian Church  
7:30  

Coming out  
Group 1545 Vine St. #7 7:30pm  
Panel discussion on ‘Women & Philosophy’  
U.M.C. 157  

Dance (Lesbian Taskforce)  
Oxford Hotel 9pm-2am  

Slide presentation  
‘Sex Role Stereotyping In  
Children’s Books’ 12:15  
May D&F Auditorium  

Sexuality Group  
1545 Vine St. #7  
7:30pm  

Brown Bag  
Lunch 11-1 1419 Pine St. Bldr.  
Women's Resource Center.  

Janet McReynolds  
reads her own poetry U.M.C.  

Bulk Rate  

U.S. Postage  
PAID  

Denver, Co.  
Permit no. 1512  

ee ee ee  
SUBSCRIBE! SUBSCRIBE!  

$5.00 one year sub  $0.40 back copies  
$3.00 to Women's Institutions

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 3, no. 5, Nov. 1974. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/MZDVUY655203606/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark  
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.