Colorado Women’s Journal

NEW MODEL OF LOVE

Society has long defined  
and imposed a clear-cut model  
of the expectations and roles  
between two persons who say  
"I love you." This established  
and time-tested model  
(i.e. marriage and the nuclear  
family) has served for centuries,  
but the present high  
divorce rate, the numerous  
teenage runaways, and the  
women's rights movement all  
attest that the old model  
for love does not function  
efficiently in today's social  

cultural realities. Real-  
ities such as the high  
geographic mobility, the di-  
versity of absorbing interests  

and capabilities, and the  
growth of a sure tie to the usual  
relationship stability, mutual  

emphasis on "us" rather than "I." The old model of mono-  
gamous primary relationship  
is restrictive, despite its  
advantages of security and  
comfort. It is far too easy  
to lose one's identity and  
interests and creativity,  
and eventually that magical  
spark of love which makes  
the restrictions and the  
sacrifice worthwhile.  

Many women have forsaken  
the old model of a permanent  
monogamous relationship in  
favor of serial monogamy —  
a series of intense, one-  
to-one relationships. Others  
have refused to be drawn  
into an intense relationship  
with one person and develop  
instead a group of persons  
to whom they feel close and  
involved, a non-monogamous  
non-primary model. Each model,  
it seems to this writer,  
has serious weaknesses and  
lacks much as a way of life  
to be comfortable with for  
a long period of time.  

Any form of relationship  
must be able to cope with  
basic interaction problems,  
such as: dependency which  
interferes with self-esteem  
and initiative; doing every-  
thing together which encour-  
ages giving up activities  
that the other isn't inter-  
ested in and not meeting  
the need for "alone time;"  

losing the sense of self;  
viewing the other person  
as a possession with the  
resultant jealousy. Relation-  

ships are traditionally expect-  
ed to fulfill all of one's  
needs and this is perhaps  

the greatest weakness of the  
permanent monogamous model.  

The monogamous model and  
the serial monogamous model  
for love both encourage depen-  
dency, possessiveness, jealousy  
and suffocation of individual  
growth and of self-initiative.  
The non-monogamous non-primary  
relationship model develops  
self-initiative but makes  
it difficult to meet intense  
emotional needs and is  
somewhat defensive  

of opening to another.  
This, however,  

is the essence  
of the new model which more  
nearly nurtures that essence  
of love and adequately  

deals with the basic problems  
has not yet been tested by  
time. But we are forced into  
experimenting and creating  
by the pressures of today's  
realities. It would seem  
that a synthesis of serial  
monogamy and the non-monog-  
amous non-primary relation-  
ship is a solution. The new  
model would have as its center  
a primary relationship — an  
intense one-to-one love rela-  
tionship — surrounded by  

a circle of close secondary  
relationships who supplement  
the missing aspects of the  
primary relationship.  

The amount of time and  
energy spent with the second-  

ary persons would vary with the  

degree to which the primary  
relationship is fulfilling  
the various needs of the  
couple. The degree of ful-  
fillment would never be 100%  
(since the couple would then  
just lock themselves in their  
home and never emerge again)  
and obviously if the degree  
of fulfillment were very low  
the couple would break up,  
but most relationships fall  
somewhere between those two  
extremes and fluctuate over  
time.  

To live this proposed  
model, the individuals must  
be willing to face problems,  
communicate their needs and  
feelings, and be willing  
to grow. The freedom in this  
model is threatening, but  
if the joys of growing, of  
exercising creativity and  
meeting new people are shared  
openly between the couple,  
then all things add to rather  
than subtract from the rela-  
tionship. The couple live  
closer to the hurt of split-  
ting up, because each day  
is a new decision, another  
affirmation of "I want to  
live with you," but this  
keeps a freshness to the rela-  
tionship which is lost in  

the old permanent monogamous  
model. There is fear that  

if one loves many persons,  

the meaning and intensity  

may be lost, but this does  

not seem to be the case. The  
object of the model is not  

to have sex with as many  
persons as possible, but rather  
to feel free to interact  
freely and warmly with others,  
to share and grow, and, if  
appropriate, include sexual  
sharing with another.  

This new model is not  
yet tested by centuries of  
experience, but the present  
divorce rate and the emphasis  
on individual identity and  
growth is forcing many to  
consider ways of relating  
intensely and sexually with  
one special person without  
suffocating and stagnating  
as so often happens in the  
traditional monogamous marri-  
age model. Implementing a  
non-monogamous primary rela-  
tionship surrounded by close  
secondary relationships re-  
quires great inner strength,  
inner security and very good  
communication between partners.  
The partners must support  
each other in their weakness  
and must celebrate together  
their strength and their  
growth. It is in this model  
that the greatest rewards may  
be found.  

(This new model is being ex-  
plored in struggle and joy in  
lesbian relationships by Nancy  
in Boulder. Any comments are  
most welcome addressed to #HiiK.)

THIS ISSUE OF BIG MAMA RAG HAS BEEN PUT TOGETHER BY THE

VER LESBIAN CENTER.  
TED, HOWEVER,  
SEXUAL ORIENTATION OF THE WIG  
TISERS HEREIN.

=

ABORTION COUNSELING

The Connection, 1777  
Clarkson Street, 892-1812

Mountain States Women’s  
Abortion Coalition, 573-7471

Ministerial Council, 757-  
Hho

Planned Parenthood, 2030  
East 20th, 388-4777

Women’s Crisis Center,  
629 South Howe, Fort Collins,  
493-3888

BIRTH CONTROL

Planned Parenthood, 2030  
East 20th, 388-4777

Birth Control Center, Boulder,  
443-2211, Ext 8036 (open 9-5)

Road House, 24 hour crisis  
center, 491-5744

CHILD CARE - SCHOOLS

Day Care, 573-5221  
Strawberry Fields, free  
school, ages 5-12, 355-8930  
Denver Free School,  
Avenue at Park Ave, 825-4748

COMMUNITY RESOURCES

St. Andrew's Church, 2015  
Glenarm Place, 534-9609

EMPLOYMENT

Better Jobs for Women,  
1545 Tremont Pl., 244-4189,  
government financed project to  
provide aid and training for  
women to improve their job skills  
The Connection, 1777 Clarkson  
Street, 892-1812

MEDICAL HELP

Colo. Gen. Hosp. 4200 E, 9th  
Ave., 7-9 pm for VD testing, MWF  
Denver Metro Health Clinic,  

645 Bannock St., 574-6666 FREE  
Sa Help Center, 1304 Elati,  
222-3344 - Donation

WOMEN'S COFFEEHOUSE TO OPEN SOON

ALL ARTICLES AND ADVERTISEMENTS  
DO NOT NECESSARILY INDICATE  

% ae > tS ienieaes ipa cs  
WAM A RAG STAY ON THE ADVERTISER-

PS ee ee ee ee ee ee

SUBMISSIONS SUPPLIED-  
THE POLITICAL ON  

LITERATURE

Radical Information Project (RIP)  
Bookstore, 737 E. 17th, 825-7413.  
Anti-Profit bookstore carrying large  
selection of women's periodicals and  
books,

Woman's Voice Bookstore,  
673 South Pearl. Denver's only  
Feminist bookstore. Large  
children's selection.

LEGAL COUNSELING  
Call Donna at 399-2414  
WOMEN'S GROUPS  
CSU Commission on the Status  
of Women, 491-5849

National Organization of  
Women (NOW), 2337 Dexter,  

Denver, 399-8788  
Everywoman, 2390 Birch St.,  

Denver, 377-0847  
YWCA, 1545 Tremont, 825-7141 x  

(activities); 406 17th Street  
Lesbian Center  
1395 Lafayette, 575-6604  
Women in Transition -  

333-4983

WHAT.

BIG  
MAMA A  
STAFF

JANET S., DEBBIE S., LINDA D.,  
MAUREEN, BARB, MIMI, B. KLINE,  
LINDA T., LINDA B., LINDA L.,  
CHOCOLATE, BECKY K., MEREDITH,  
NANCY, CAROL K., PEG, KATE S.

Seccccccccceescocceccocces

SG FOVSHSCSEVSECHSSHSDSSHOSESCOD

Mail to: BIG MAMA RAG SUBSCRIPTIONS

1635 Downing  
Denver, Colorado 80218  
Enclosed is $5.00 for a year's subscription.  
Enclosed is 40¢ (25¢ per copy plus 15¢ per  
copy postage and handling) each for copies  
of the (which?) issue, or a total of $ . .

‘Please send the above to:  
Name  
Street Address  
City  

State  

BIG MAMA RAG, Contact me at  

I would like to contribute time and energy to  

(phone),  

(You are we and we are you,)  

CAE NII RR ne re oe rN RN

ste 08 e CFD eed LE ee es a ee

KNOW YOURSELF - BE WELL

gata Single copies of Circle-One our bodies. We plan to have 

by Vicki Ziegler and Liz Campbell for Colorado Springs Women's Health, 409 East Fontanero, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80907, can be ordered for 75¢ from a questionnaire that should reveal their attitudes about women coming to appointments in pairs, how they feel about 

fully,

ral aqgote S 4 os Wy 3 7 Colorado Springs Women 07, answering questions

San Tt has h sett for 4 p. ens.

nai pe presse Several of the women working in our women's health group are also part of a teaching collective established by various other topics. 

is to be able to recommend doctors who we know will give good and responsible care to any woman who chooses to patronize them.

We've also been traveling around the state helping new 

at the Colorado College. Working with this feminist anthropology professor, we are 

developing a women's studies course for the Fall of '73. 

We started our work in the context of a women's liberation consciousness-raising group, but have been a separate operation for several 

with new participants have decided to vary the courses from the usual reading, discussion seminars, and go wherever we are asked to 

create a work course designing for 13¢ a mile. We are always 

with women's issues and problems. get started. If you are interested in any aspect of the women's health movement, and we can be of assistance to you please contact us by mail at 

spine Colorado 80907, or by 

= teac

é ww collective has the primary authority for making decisions about required reading and general course requirements. The main thrust seems to come under the general head of women's health or the women's health movement. The course will deal largely with mental health, but the 

s/Our, Fel as well as Circle One and will be encouraged to participate in the self-help part of their work. We taught the women's health course last January, every woman in the class responded enthusiastically to the 

on self 

ed up with three swimming classes, which continued as ongoing consciousness-raising groups. Several of the women 

We learn to recognize 

abnormality such as 

and pregnancy. 

=3 @ doctor 

specifically involved in 

subsequent health work. Our 

hope is to turn new women on to the meaningful work involved and encourage them to 

go in the direction they find especially interesting. The health movement has so many facets, there is a place for every young woman. Currently we are starting two new classes in beginning self-health. One of them came from response to our notice in the free university summer session catalog. We worked through the free university in the Spring teaching two classes. If there is anything like that in your area, it is a good way to reach women other than those attending local colleges. We charge no fees but receive contributions for our packets which include all the necessary equipment plus 

and the Birth Control Handbook. (Contributions are usually about $3 from women who are able to pay.) 

We have 

ded in Circle-One articles on the history of the self-health movement, advocacy, and menstrual extraction. In the purely clinical area, there are step-by-step instructions for doing bimanual pelvic exams, for using the speculum, and for learning breast examination. There is a comprehensive article on the various vaginal infections and their treatments which should be of interest to every woman who has ever had an itching, burning crotch. There is 

I had reasoned this out in my mind; there was one of two things I had a right to, liberty or death. If I could not have one, I would have the other, for no man should take me alive. I would fight for my liberty as long as my strength lasted, and when the time came for me to go, the Lord would let them take me. Harriet Tubman

printing notes......:

Much as we appreciate quality and breadth, our space limitations demand that articles be SHORT-SHORT=SHORT. Strive for a maximum of two double-spaced typewritten pages. We reserve the right to edit any articles which we would like to publish but are too lengthy to be included in full. Also - 

also a discussion of childbirth from a feminist perspective.

We found ourselves branching out quite naturally into the area of women's sexuality, and consequently, we included 

Another project for the Summer is to compile a referral list of gynecologists and obstetricians. We want to ferret out those physicians who are willing to co-operate 

if any of our readers would like 

to mail us articles, photos, and/or graphics, we would appreciate it if you would write a few words about who you are so you can be credited. Be kind to 

a large enthusiastic section with us----those who will provide good gynecological care your material can be free of condescension, and mailed to: The Big Mama Rag, 

1000 E. 23rd, Denver, CO 80205. 

a wig Le a aeenmea Pieecartegs er Beate Donna at 39972389 

ation about our bodies and the problems we may be having with

Lost Lesbians of Literature

Natalie Clifford Barney and Renée Vivien, French Poets.

Having spent a year at La Sorbonne, gotten my B.A. in French Literature and gone
on to one year of graduate study, I thought that I knew a good deal about French
poetry. Imagine my surprise when while doing research in an extraordinary book,

I discovered two lesbian poets whose work impressed me deeply. I had studied all
these years and had never heard of these women.

My information comes from a remarkable book: Sex Variant Women in Literature
A Historical And Quantitative Survey, by Jeannette H. Foster, PH.D. Vantage Press,
New York, 1956.* (all references except where otherwise noted will be from this book).
This volume can be consulted at the University of Denver Library. Dr. Foster
covers the entire literary field (up to 1956). Her section on German Literature is
particularly good, but as a French student I will concentrate on my two pet
discoveries.

All of the following analysis is based more or less on Dr. Foster's study, as
neither of these poets is available here in either French or English. With one
exception: Dr. Foster gives no translations, so the interlinear transliterations
are my own. For them I beg indulgence, for I'm no poet.

Strangely enough, The Songs of Bilitis, a rather anemic imitation of Ancient
Greek styles, has been and is popular among lesbians, while Natalie Barney and Renée
Vivien remain unknown and unpublished. Yet both women were contemporaries of Louÿs
(the man who wrote The Songs). At first they even gave him manuscripts to criticize
seeing in him ** ‘the champion of the young girls of the future'....They found him
more inclined to admire ‘jeux latins et voluptés grecques’ (Latin games and Greek
pleasures) than the ‘exagérées préoccupations’ (exaggerated preoccupations) of femmes
vannées (a common French term for lesbians). *Ibid, p.154.

‘The lesser, from a literary viewpoint, was Natalie Clifford Barney,

an American ...who was able to live independently in Paris and maintain
her own yacht...she had by the late nineties made contact with Pierre
Louÿs....In the garden of her luxurious Paris residence she built a
Temple of Friendship, and welcomed there many of the literary personalities
of the day".* Ibid, pp.154-155.

The only two volumes available are Aventures de L'Esprit, [Aventures of the
mind] a sort of record of her relationships with the literary notables of her time,
and Actes et Entractes [Acts and Intermissions]: four poetic dramas and some poems.

One of these, "Couple," is a descriptive and sensuous picture of two lovers:

"Se tenant par la taille-- ainsi que deux bouleaux —
“~ their arms around each other's waists--like two birch-trees)
Reliés par leurs branches--
Centwining their branches--)
Elles vont, ondulant leurs têtes et leurs hanches...
(they pass, swaying their hips and their heads...)
Elles sont dans la nuit ainsi qu'au seuil d'un temple,
(they enter the night like the threshold of a mysterious temple...)
Si quelque homme, épian t ce couple insidieux,
(if some man, seeing this disturbing pair, )
De son mépris le couvre...
Let him see that all gifts of beauty are pleasing to the Gods; )
Que les lois ordinaires

(that such ordinary standards)

Ne peuvent s'appliquer à ces noces lunaires...
(could never apply to these lunar embraces...)

Elles ont, d'un élan plus divin qu'animal
(with a passion more divine than animal, they have)
Dans les vastes silences

(in the deep freedom of secrecy)
Joint avec des baisers leurs ressemblances,
(Joined with their kisses their similarity, )
Toutes leurs ressemblances.
(their complete similarity...)
Et par delà la terre, et le Bien, et le mal,
(and beyond the world, beyond good, beyond bad,)
Elles vont, diaphanes
(They go, diaphanous)
Et troublantes, et ceux qui les jugent profanes
(and troubling, and those who think ill of them)
Sont eux-mêmes profanes. * Ibid, [Barney, N. C., Actes et Entractes. Paris
(Senset, 909) p.157. 

"Of greater literary importance is Renée Vivien [Pauline Tarn, whose poetry has
been pronounced most perfect in form of any French verse written in the first
quarter of the century, and this quality is the more remarkable in that her native
language was not French but English. As she died at thirty-two, its quantity also
deserves mention, for her collected poems run to five hundred pages; besides...
two volumes of 'prose-poems' which a decade later would have been called free verse,
a prose satire, and an autobiographical novel." Ibid., p.158.

"Vivien was more openly lesbian than any woman so far encountered in Dr.
Foster's book, but the few selections and biographical notes found in anthologies
are careful to conceal this fact,... so she will be discussed here at some
length." Ibid., p. 159.

I must refer you to Dr. Foster's competent study for this excellent discussion.

4 continued on page 5

eg 64  
of Vivien’s life and her relation to her work Here, I only attempt to give an impression of her poetry, hoping to stimulate those who read a little French, and perhaps to interest others in pushing for an English edition of these sisters who were saying seventy years ago what we are shouting now. And in some ways they said it better—speaking of beauty in beautiful words, they praised women without fear, without hangups, in verse of such sensual beauty as has not been equaled since Sappho laid down her pen. (I mean the French originals, of course, not my pitifully inadequate transliterations. After all, most of us know Sappho only through competent translations. Competent translations of at least Renée Vivien we must have!

Her English name was Pauline Tarn. All evidence points to an experience when Vivien was about seventeen. Her family had withdrawn her from happy school-life in Paris with her bosom-friend Violet to prepare her for the marriage market. Revolted by the prospect before her, Vivien poured out her emotions in letters to Violet. By all evidence her relationship with Violet—a very religious and mystical young girl—was completely innocent, but when Vivien's family intercepted these passionate letters they thought otherwise. A horrendous uproar of accusations, hate, and disgust seems to have followed, from which Vivien escaped only on becoming twenty-one, coming into her inheritance, and returning to Paris, free and wealthy in her own right.

Free at last, independently wealthy, Pauline Tarn returned to her beloved Paris, and soon acquired residences in Paris, Nice, and Mitylene, the first of which became legendary for its treasures of antique and oriental art, and to the end of her days she was an inveterate traveler, drunk with her new freedom...she found Violet too serious. Through her, however, she met Natalie Clifford Barney, who introduced her to Sappho. This double revelation: an intelligent woman whose talents, wealth, and sexual tastes matched her own, and a great classical poet who glorified these tastes—here was her “raison d'être,” her life purpose.

Soon after the beginning of her “new life,” perhaps as a symbol of her “pagan” (i.e. Ancient Greek) rebirth, she took the name under which she lived and wrote for the rest of her life: Renée Vivien. A common enough French name, surely, but it is interesting to note that renée means “re-born,” and that vivien has at least some etymological tie to vie (life) and vif, vive (alive, lively).

That at this time Vivien felt a sense of renewal and self-confidence in her newfound faith and pride in her socially despised experience is evident in her two poems published in the same book as the one already quoted! (Poesies Completes, p. 152-55) The first, "Ainsi Je Parlerai" (what I would say), is a religious-philosophic fantasy concerning what one would say if the Last Judgment actually arrived, complete with a sympathetic and all-forgiving Jesus. What a temptation! (In that almost excessively moral era, almost everyone believed, really believed, and the worst sinners treasured the hope of a deathbed repentance and heaven's glory, for weren't they Christians, the chosen people? Hadn't Christ washed away all their sins if only they repented?)

Vivien has obviously no desire to repent. In "Ainsi Je Parlerai" she seems unaware of any sin at all. Although this complacent confidence does not survive unabated throughout her work, naturally enough, her sincerity and “liberation” at this time is conveyed in the innocent exaltation of her poems:

Ainsi Je Parlerai (what I would say)

Le Seigneur penchait son front sur mon trépas (if the Blessed Saviour came to my deathbed)  
Je dirais: O Christ, je ne te connais pas. (I would say; Christ, I do not know you.)  
(Lord, your strict law has never been)  
Je vécus ainsi qu'un simple païen... (I have lived as a simple pagan...)  
Et je vivais ainsi qu'un simple païen... (And I lived as a simple pagan...)  
Le monde était autour de moi, tel un jardin. (The world was all around me just like a garden.)  
Je buvais l'aube claire et le soir cristallin. (I drank the clear dawn and the crystalline twilight.)  
Le soleil me ceignait de ses plus vives flammes, (The sun girdled me round with his most eager fires,)  
Et l'amour m'incline vers la beauté des femmes. (And toward the beauty of women Love turned my desires.)  
Pardonne-moi, qui fus une simple païenne (So pardon me, who was a simple pagan!)  
Laisse-moi retourner vers ta splendeur ancienne (Let me return to my ancient glory.)  
Et, puisque enfin l'instant éternel est venu, (And since at last the eternal moment has come,)  
Rejoindre celles-là qui n'ont point connu. (Rejoin those who never could have known you.)

Vivien neither asks for forgiveness nor the hope of heaven; she would prefer instead to go to the pleasant, earthlike purgatory where the theology of the time placed those “good" pagans who had lived before the coming of Christ, and so had no chance to accept him. The particular pagans Vivien has in mind are clearly indicated by the use of the French pronoun celles-là in the last line. Sappho was perhaps not ‘on the list,’ so to speak, of good pagans at this particular time in history, but this specific feminine pronoun leaves no doubt as to which part of the ancient pagans she preferred—the splendor of the ancients to the joy of heaven.

The purpose of the Denver Sustaining Fund is to recycle to ourselves alternative institutions. Establish a procedure to financially sustain organizations which are serving the needs of poor people, working people, women, and minorities.

The desire is in us less strong than tenderness... (with us lust is less violent than tenderness, less powerful than touch)  
Et nos maîtresses ne sauraient nous décevoir, (and our lovers could never disappoint us, really.)  
Puisque c'est l'infini que nous aimons en elles... (because we seek perfection with them, and don't demand it from them...)  
Nos jours sans impudeur, sans crainte ni remords (our days, without shame, without fear or remorse)  
Se déroulent, ainsi que de larges accords, (unroll like mid-ocean waves; broad, calm, and deep,)  
Et nous nous aimons, comme ils aimaient à Mitylene. (and we love each other, like they loved at Mitylene.)

Dr. Foster says about this poem: "Far from being the mere defiant sacrilege this seemed to some readers, it was the confession of a new faith to replace the one in whose name England had damned her.” 

In an age of Faith—hypocritical or not—this is a remarkable poem. There is no guilt, no scent of sin, and Vivien‘s witty twist of conventional theology at the end is not only clever but daring.

Vivien established a villa at Mitylene, and became for a time the dedicated priestess of the new “Golden Age.” The following lines from "Les Invités" show her self-confidence and liberated spirit at this time. This was in fact the most "right-on" period of her life, before health, unwise love affairs, and false friends had time to tarnish the Golden Ideal. Commonly enough, her best poetry was yet to come. But the poetry of pain, of disillusion, in other words the work of maturity (yet she died at thirty-two!) is, while it may be better poetry than these “Youthful Pieces,” beyond the scope of this article.

I do intend, however, to follow Renée Vivien on my own as far as the Denver area's limited facilities permit. Anyone who has ever heard of these women—even a name in an index or a line in a book—should write Barbara Kline, c/o The Lesbian Center, Women in Transition House, 1895 Lafayette St., Denver.

Surely the time is now for an edition of her works in English (preferably Bi-Lingual) for a poet of whom Reinach wrote the following...

"I could quote from these volumes at least two hundred verses which rank among the finest specimens of French poetry... I am aware that there are some objectionable elements...but her genius—for genius she had—is the more extraordinary as she wrote in a language not her own. I feel sure she will be famous someday, and think it desirable that we should try to know more about her before it gets too late.” 

Dr. Foster goes on to say: "All the critics who grant her this superlative poetic quality agree that she has received nothing approaching her due recognition because of the lesbian element in her work. In view of the small number of persons in any generation who are tolerant of such love, it may be that she will never receive it."

All I can hope is that women and lesbians remain fashionable and “in” long enough to become, at least momentarily, a popular subject for scholarship so that universities have the money and facilities to dig up the primary texts and get them into print. Once our lost literature is available in print, it's up to us. If Sappho Was a Lesbian Woman (no insult intended—it's a fine book, but strictly contemporary movement literature, not Belle Lettres) satisfies your needs, that’s fine. But this is our culture; it's been hidden from us; it's been simply neglected; it will soon be lost forever to us, our successors, our children. You don't ever have to actually read this stuff if you don’t want to. There will always be crazy women wild to study, and always, the humanity will need it to you from. Now before you get offended, remember High School Lit. Remember Dickinson and Herman Melville, remember Julius Caesar or whichever bored you most. Starlet penne? Hiss Magner? I'm not saying it would be any better, would it? It’s just too dull! If you can't read it, you won't! Nonsense! Bullshit, that's all.

Denver Sustaining Fund

The money for this fund will come from two sources: a voluntary tax on items people purchase from various businesses which are participating in the fund (the community chain) and from individuals pledging a certain amount of their weekly paychecks (the community cache).

The fund has been determined. A board of directors has been established which receives money based on continued support.

I've NEVER SEEN YOU HERE BEFORE.  
Wanna dance?

it happened to me -  
it can happen to YOU !!  

coming out by Becky any healthy self-interest is spent the rest of the morning  

abnormal, any desire to be and afternoon on the sidewalk  
self-reliant becomes suspect. outside the graduate student  
Attempting to put together And yet 10% of the poor offices, installing my gen-  
some coherent feelings about in this country is homosexual, erator set and adjusting every-  
the time since my coming out, presumably at least a lot of thing possible on my bike. For  
there are images of unfath- us women and a lot of us fem- Was successfully mechanical,  
omable distances...being told inists. Lesbians have been and I was using my own tool.  
at the bank that only a hus- the strength and the heart of  
band and wife can have a joint the Women's Movement since  
account...a conversation with a man who honestly couldn't the very beginning, and it  
believe I am not flattered by makes me angry that somehow  
men's obscene sidewalk remarks we are so consistently not in-  
or supposed friends falling cluded in projects we worked  
incommunicado once my life so hard to help--Lesbian mot-  

diverged from theirs...and hers left so painful  
most recently, a visit from my Just to keep their children when  
lover's long-time, understanding friend, who understands we are healing from care; the "Ko  

wounds we let be afflicted at men and women;  
the hands of men, understands tion  
we are passing through a phase just  
in which we lovingly nurture each other (perhaps in her  

eyes as contestants grooming  
each other, soon to be vying for some crown or other), and  
understands we will be out merely to clear hassles that  
never even exist for others. The other levels, the emotional,  
personal factors are infinitely more difficult to deal with,  
Yet it is on these levels that the real changes must take place if people  
would see us as we are and accept us for what we are the  
rest of 1% would be far less of concern. We are women who  
at some point felt uncomfortable having only options given  
to us by a world controlled by men, Women who were strong  
enough to begin to build lives which suit us as individuals  
and not someone else's expectations. Women who find that  
easier to do that away from men who perpetuate those ex-  
pectations. We are women whose love of other women is  
often more understanding, more complete, more genuine  
and more lasting than any heterosexual love. People evidently  
find it hard to believe that anyone could really be happy as  
a homosexual; I find it hard to believe anyone could really be  
happy as a heterosexual. But if people are happy, what more is  
there to say...All I guess I'd like to see is for everyone to  
find what human qualities they would like to develop and to  
thereby be full human beings, and to let me do the same. by Chocolate  

May 22, 1973 I've just been  
thinking that in the last  
five years or so I've gone  

it hard for people to imagine  
what we are. Not that we  

should feel compelled to ex- "How a beautiful friendship  
plain to anyone what we are blossomed" or (The Crescent  
about, but I am tired of and Wrench meets the Pen-knife)  
angry with having people as- A True Story By Linda T.  
sume that because my lover is  
not a man, my love and/or com-  
mitment is somehow not complete.  

It seems only logical to me to  
share life with one who experiences it as I do--and no man  
knows how it feels to be a woman. To be socialized into a  
role so remarkably narrow that  
on I was truly content. I  

continued on page 12

apa i eI!  
7  

Marie Loves Biastmase A Seery  

By Debbie 3.  

Marie's apartment had a  
window which looked down onto  
the quiet street in the city,  
or onto the other old houses,  
or showed a hint of the mount-  
ains between the houses across  
the street. The mountains  
were the view Marie chose to  
look at this evening. They  
were why she had chosen to  
move to Denver. But Denver  
had become a cold, lonely,  
city for Marie. It contained  
few friends for her. She had  
been in Denver for almost a  
year, a year contained of few  
events but many memories of  
Rosemary. Rosemary was  
a close friend  
back East to  
year at the ematl  
Marie had graduated from last  
year, and where they both met  
in a small "Social Concerns"  
class the year before.  

Marie was a good student in  
college, majoring in Sociology.  
In her senior year of studies,  
she was quiet and  
well liked by her other  
friends in the dorm.  
She didn't seem to adapt  
in that atmosphere. It  
seemed to bother Marie;  
but it did bother the few girl  
friends, and it especially  
bothered her parents.  

After all, her friends'  
parents reminded her, college  
was to find the  
one and only man for you  
and how to  
do this if  
men like her  

Rosemary was outgoing,  
pretty and popular with the  
men. She had quit her sorority  
at the end of her sophomore  
year feeling it was silly and  
hypocritical. At the same time  
she became active in the  
peace movements on campus. Her  

sharp skirts and  
sweaters changed to blue jeans  
and work shirts. With all this  
change, her boyfriend had be-  
come critical and felt she was  
becoming too radical for his  
taste in women. Instead of  
trying to talk through her  
transition at Rosemary's pleas,  
he wanted the relationship to  
break up. So she gave back his  
fraternity pin with feelings  
of hurt and defeat but hoping  
he might really want her back,  

always hoping. But now her  
time was spent with Marie, and  
she enjoyed her moments totally  
alone with her.  

When Marie was approaching  
her graduation, she wondered  
what was going to happen in  
the future. Her life philo-  
sophy was centered around the  
now time. Nothing was impor-  
tant in the past, nor should  
one worry about the future.  
All energy and emotion should  
be put into the present, the  
now. But the paradox appeared  
when she panicked at the  
thought of graduating and not  
coming back next fall to  
school. She had to make some  
plans for the future, something  
to look forward to. She de-  
cided it was a decision that  
Rosemary should have a part in  
also. They had talked about it  
off and on, but one day de-  
cided, since it was such a  
beautiful day, to go into the  
park and talk about both their  
futures.  

They both loved to explore  
the park and thought they had  
explored all of it when they  
came upon a quiet, secluded  
part far from the road, the  
college, and any other person.  
That was where they both de-  
cided Marie should go on to  
Denver, to explore a new city  
and wait for Rosemary to grad-  
uate. Then Rosemary would  
join her in Denver, and they  
both would stay there or go on  
to San Francisco or Europe.  
That was also where Marie  

really saw the beauty in  
Rosemary's eyes and her  
emotions moved her enough to  
venture a touch on Rosemary's  

cheek with her finger.  

Rosemary was not startled by  
the touch, she accepted it  
fully. Marie took her finger  
lightly down Rosemary's face  
to the side of her mouth.  
There she moved her finger  
over Rosemary's lips lightly,  
gently. Rosemary bent over  
Marie and kissed her on the  
lips, softly, delicately. Then  
again they kissed and again  
and their fingers ran through  
each other's long, brown hair  
that flowed on their bodies.  

That was what Marie re-  
membered now of Rosemary, her  
softness, her beauty. Marie  
would get letters weekly and  
an occasional phone call to  
keep her memories of Rosemary  
flowing. Rosemary would soon  
join her, and they would be  
happily together again. Marie  
was certainly unhappy now, but  
in the future with Rosemary  
she would be happy, they would  
be happy.  

The next few days in Denver  
passed slowly in Marie's life.  
Her horrible job in the office  
added to her misery with the  
people who mocked her for not  
being a part of their ugly  
world. But one day contained  
a letter from Rosemary which  
was greatly needed by Marie.  
She ripped it open reading  
rapidly. It read of trivial  
matters in Rosemary's last  
days at college, the papers  
due, the tests coming up, and  
more about some silly man  
Rosemary had met. This upset  
Marie, he was more a part of  
Rosemary's life with each  
letter. Marie became more  
frustrated while reading  
further about him. Then she  
came upon the passage in the  
letter that talked about  
Rosemary moving into an apart-  
ment with him after graduation.  
Nothing was mentioned about  
coming to Denver or being with  
Marie. All was about him and  
living with him.  

Marie started pacing  
around the apartment furiously.  
She had no sense of things  
around her, nor could she see  
anything outside herself.  
Miraculously, she did not bump  
into anything but internally  
she bumped into every memory  
of Rosemary she possessed.  
Marie had something in her  
hand, heavy, hard, cold. She  
then saw it flying through the  
room crashing against the wall.  
She then heard a scream that  
started deep inside her and  
found its way out through her  
mouth.  

Tears ran down her cheeks  
as she went to the phone. She  
became irritated when she  
couldn't readily find Rosemary's  
number. But why would she  
need it when she knew it by  
heart? She tried to steady  
her hand and read the numbers  
through the tears in her eyes.  
The numbers clicked away, the  
line connected, the ring,  
Rosemary's voice. Marie  
thought she would choke, no  
words would come out at first,  
but she was surprised at the  

ease with which she spoke.  

continued on page 12

BIG MAMA WAARARARAAAAAAAA AAA,  
hg Mm. by es ee  

tunately the last ve  

mitted. The poem app  

full with our apologies to Se  

LITERARY LESBIAN BRAINWAVES ==  

A FAIRY TELL A 4  
Once upon a tell a  
Lived a cindered Cinderella  
Met her stepmother Ella  
And two sickly sisterellas.  
Cinderella scrubbed like hella  

(And she scrubbed herself as wella).  
She was very beautatella  

For Everyone I! Call  

= But we'll leave her to hersella  
Precious And tell about the prince!  
We, We  
Betne Stones mee 2 In this land there lived a prince!  
By Wate S. Who was strong and bold and rich!,  

Though he walked with quite a swish!,  
He was still a handsome prince!  

But a little feminine!  

Now his Dad the Great Loud King!  
Guessed why his son was single  

So he planned a big shebang!  

With women, wine, and fandangle.  

I guess I owe you for a  
helluva lot, like freeing me  
from literally endless preen-  
ing and grooming and double-  
check sniffs to my armpits-  
and skirts I couldn't move in  
couldn't run in if I had to  
(end sometimes I did), and  
freeing me from fucks in the  
back of cars and indebted  
fucks for dinner and a movie,  
for being like me and not  
making me have to scream to  
be heard and completely give  

Up on being understood,...tor Throughout the land the news did travel,  
teaching me slowly, in-  

finitely, patiently all the And Cinderella heard the tell a  
things I had to learn, un- There was to be a gay ballella  
learn, relearn, and rearrange (She never listened very wella and  

At first the son did laugh and scoff a.  
Then he starts to choke and cough a  
And flip his wrist an awful lot a.  
People wanted him married off a!  

the world  
upside down in a raindrop  

in the proper perspective... with a tiara: She knew this prince was quite a fellah!  
. € sun at the bot  

everything from how to be . oe But she needed a husband desperella  
oe = ipo nigh ee enchanted So she called her fairy godmother Ella.  

© say no, to how to put up +) BUELL. ctete ‘  

dry wall’, so fear £6 be hoanst tine Tag i sister They planned to trap the fair princella,  
to how to change a tire, to eat an ae eet nti n page  

Seytee teeemiecer oe bse arink the world continued on page 9  

to make sense of things and  
of course to how to say yes!  
For giving me back all the  
orgasms I'd lost over the  
years, for curing my acute  
and almost fatal case of  
tactophobia, for ridding me  
of the guilt of not being  
voluptuous and seductive, for  
ridding me of the shame of my  
"monthly curse", for ridding  
me of my sense of obligation  
toward raising a family,  

tree branches burn  
into watery blue  
sky eye sun stares  

the power  

from that star is yours  
or mine or ours or  

you or me  

we  

are the water witches  

the fire air earth witches  
women of all elements  

Two Carrots  

" 5 +}, =f }  
feeding a horny, demanding, we breathe in the sink:  
insensitive, egotistical, mee te inching toward the drain  
breadwinner, and making the = as the water recedes.  

colors in the carpet and the -by Sassafrass  

curtains match, for giving me - : Just pieces of carrots really.  
more loved ones than ever I eh SOOO oC III of the same carrot perhaps.  
would have acquired in a house Peelea, sliced, quartered and  
with a two car garage or EPITAPH gee et eet  
possibly would have acquired She died to live she Until only their color defines  
in the state institution lived to die she them. "  

living in that house might died inside him where she lived  

well have led me to, for so long dying Left in the can lone after the  
allowing, indeed encouraging PO GET OUT x  

vegetable soup was heated,  
"Chocolate" rinsed out into quiet  

corners of the sink  

from where they floated to-  

me to feel the full spectrum  
of human and exclusively fe-  
male emotion, and for beings  

much like me that I could give together  

you back all those things in r« and touched.  

return and keep the whole a  

thing moving e = Then cleaved to each other  

> -down the drain,  

WHY I DROPPED OUT OF THE MILITIA  

Revolutions make people bleed. Meredith Britt  
I don't wanna bleed.  -Alta

MY HISTORY 800K53 LIs) TO Me

SHEY TOLD ME I DIDN'T EXIST.
Uf poe Alta

The gala ball came round quite quickly -
So did Cinder dressed to the tickly

And riding in her pumpkinickly.

She spied the prince almost at once. .
He looked so sad, down in the dumpsel,
She ran and threw her arms aroundsel,

"I love you and I need a hunsel !"

The prince drew back in much surpraggle.
He swished away his royal raggle.
"Don't fear," she cried, "You flaming faggle
I'm DustBin Hoffman dressed in draggle!"
The princel was so glad he weeped.
He huggled Cinder till she creepled
(Then left the ball to get some sleepel).
Of course they both were very heepel
And went to live in A.C. Diesel-
gaily ever eefel.

Halloween Is Fer Clowns

By Meredith Britt Other people were going home from her two-week vacation.
In the refrigerator I found
"All who have been Halloween Clowns, take heart. 
There is still candy in the entrance of the stranger's house. 
The pumpkin grins. The porchlight still burns." 
Five o'clock is the time to go home, but the job wasn't done. 
"Gotta go to the bank," I thought lying on my head on 
the floor of the driver's side of a Chevy pickup, my feet 
through the window of the open door. Bill leaned over to whisper 
obscenities in my ear, hitting his head on the steering wheel. 
He then took our customers to break the bad news. 
They took it well. I was left alone again in the quiet sol- 
itude of my botched up job. 
I had cut my finger, the incision was about 4 millimeters 
in length, two fifty-firsts of an inch wide, and I 
questioned the advisibility of stitches. I went to wash my 
hands and think about things. It occurred to me that it had 
been a long time since I had really enjoyed kissing a woman. 
Six o'clock and I'm asked if I would mind going to 
Littleton to get a truck. I didn't mind. By the time I 
got back downtown the shop was closed so I was forced to go 
home, "Yo, not yet," 
Seven-fifteen, a downpour of rainwater all over Auraria, 
no windshield wipers, a premature dusk and I'm home. 
Checked the mail...no mail, 
Looked to inspect the gash in my finger but couldn't find it. 
Fat Six sleeping in the chair still hadn't had her kittens. 
I called my friend, Beanie, to see if she was back from 
her trip. The phone kept ringing lifelessly until I 
hung up. The fifteenth day of September.

Feminist Literature — in review

LESBIAN NATION  
Written by Jill Johnston  

Lesbian Nation is the product of  
an authoress whose unique writing  
style is probably one of the most  
revolutionary cultural tools given to  
the Lesbian Feminist Movement,  
the Women's Movement, and possibly  
the world.  

The book is peppered with brilliant  
insight into the phenomena of Lesbian  
Feminism, and into herself, and the  
changes she has undergone in both  
her creative and political life.  

It took this writer about two hours  
in the back of a car traveling through  
the Salt Flats of Utah, to appreciate  
Ms. Johnston's writing ability, reading  
excerpts of past Village Voice columns  
kindly provided me by one Lake Circumspect. When I finally finished reading  
them I felt as if I had met a very inter-  
esting, though obscure person. I wanted  
to know more about her.  

Lesbian Nation offered me the oppor-  
tunity to see more of Ms. Johnston's  
writing and to see much of the obscurity  
thrown off to reveal a very honest account  
of herself. Many of her theories on  
Feminism, I believe to be the logical  
evolvement the Lesbian Feminist Movement  
will be making.  

If you want a little stimulus  
and some new ideas, this is definitely  
a book you should read.  

The First Sex by  
Elizabeth Gould Davis  

"Barbara Kline"  

In this book Ms. Davis  
presents a variety of arguments for the superiority  
of woman never yet assembled together in a single  
volume. Pre-historical conjecture and hypotheses  
(i.e. Atlantis, etc.), biology, history, anthropol-  
ogy and above all archaeology are woven together to  
present a very convincing thesis.  

However, it discloses many pos-  
sible holes in this tapestry. This is not to say  
that Ms. Davis gets her facts wrong. Indeed, the author  
is very scrupulous to point out where she departs from  
facts into conjecture.  

Her conjecture doesn't  
always hold up; sometimes she goes a bit too far, in  
my opinion. Male reviewers and male readers will un-  
doubtedly use this against the basic thesis of the book.  
However, in the opinion of this reviewer, The First  
Sex could be shorn of all Ms. Davis' fascinating  
though "un scholarly" hypotheses and the facts would  
be much duller, but the argument presented would be  
valid.  

And so regardless of  
some lack of university-oriented standards of "schol-  
arship", I strongly urge every  
woman to read this book. Every woman, because, though  
written from a strictly heterosexual point of view, it  
presents many interesting and useful archaeological facts  
and discoveries previously unknown to this reviewer and  
undoubtedly to most women,  

which may be very helpful to parents  
and other heterosexual loved ones. Most of all, however,  
Sappho Was A Right On Woman presents Lesbianism  
as a valid and often preferable alter-  
native lifestyle in the context of our  
patriarchal world today.  

SAPPHO WAS A RIGHT ON  
WOMAN  
Written by Sidney Abbot  
and Barbara Love  
(Stein and Day, 1972)  

"In America They Call Us Dykes"  
from Our Bodies, Our Selves  
a Simon and Schuster publication.  
By Kate S.  

When the first edition of  
Our Bodies, Our Selves was  
published the only mention of  
lesbianism in the book was  
found in a few paragraphs in  
the chapter on sexuality;  
squeezed between the topics  
of fantasies and masturba-  
tion.  

Now that the second edition has hit the shelves we  
find an entire chapter devoted  
to lesbianism with the title,  
“In America They Call Us Dykes.” Throughout the chap-  
ter we find that a much needed  
and long awaited pride and be-  
lief in lesbianism is portrayed.  

Like Sappho Was A Right On Woman  
then, I might have gotten a much  
truer and prouder view of myself as  
both a Lesbian and a woman.  
"In America They Call Us  
Dykes," continues in this vein  
of strength and pride by giving  
the stories of the lives  
of four lesbians. These stories  
are told honestly and candidly and cover every emo-  
tional gamut of Lesbianism  
from jealousy toward the boy-  
friends of close female friends,  
to pressures felt to conform  
to heterosexuality, to lesbian "  
homophobia."  

The chapter deals again  
candidly with the advantages  
and pitfalls to "telling"  
friends and family. We also  
read of job discrimination  
directed toward Lesbians and  
also of problems caused by  
the law and by the medical  
professions.  

Drawing on the personal experiences  
of both the authors and other Lesbians,  
the book is a proud and clear-cut expli-  
cation of both Lesbianism and Feminism.  
Usually linking one with the other, it  
goes on to affirm and explain why  
Lesbians are probably some of the strong-  
est and healthiest individuals in our  
society today. The authors pull no  
punches about being gay and proud and  
often throw in a few of their own.  

The book in its entirety offers  
meaning for the younger Lesbian who  
may be unsure of what it really means  
for a woman to be gay; it gives hope  
to the older Lesbian who may have  
always had to live with the lies of  
a double existence and it puts forth a  
prideful and forward explanation.

Lesbian Center Gets It Together

n who identify with
the identity of women and who
are really applying this
to our every-
day society. Our

: is working

other lesbians.
are concerned with keeping
these entities together.

WOMAN-TO-WOMAN RELATIONSHIPS. ANY-
CONSCIOUSNESS REALIZING ONE. INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING

LESBIAN CENTER

MONTH. THEY WILL SOON IN ANY OF THESE GROUPS SHOULD
CALL THE CENTER DURING THE OFFICE
HOURS (573-6604).

STUDY GROUP, AND NON-

HAPPY HOUR

MONDAY thru FRIDAY 4-2 WEEKDAYS = 4-6
SATURDAY 2-2 ~ SUNDAY GET WELL
SUNDAY 2-12

CONT. FROM PAGE 6

IT HAPPENED

and college days and I will
never again be ashamed of
either. Most of my friends
are women who identify them-
selves as women and who now
see many solutions to con-
temporary outrages through

feminist eyes. Trying to
live our lives with that kind

of consciousness always in
mind is often difficult,
FRUSTRATING, and even madden-
ing, but it can be exhilarat-
ing as well.

At least I have learned to be
proud. Whereas I was once
perverted, abnormal, and some-
thing less than human, I am
now prideful, beautiful, and
sometimes even superior about
myself because I am Lesbian.

Chocolate

At both
levels I was and am
afraid.

I was afraid before
because I thought I was an
outcast to be shunned and
whispered about (now I know
I'm an outcast, but being an
outcast is my strength). I
am afraid now because I know
there are people who would
not hesitate to kill me—and
kill me with self-righteous-
ness. Being a Lesbian who

is out front, I am immediately
a threat to this entire pat-
riarchal society—a society
that has become so corrupt
and fascistic it would will-
ingly annihilate anyone who
dares to oppose it (often as
long as that annihilation is
undercover—shades of WATER -
GATE). Before, I was a mon-
ster inside of myself (and
that was the monster) but now,
as Robin Morgan put it, "I
AM A MONSTER AND I AM PROUD."

I am also happy because

I will continue to be a "mon-
ster" as long as we live in

a world where people are only
as free as far as the wire tap
on their telephones, where
every minority must suffer for
their differences and where
every woman—in the context

of our lives—must be a pros-
titute to someone or some-
thing.

I know that I must con-
tinue to be an outcast be-
cause I can never again be
part of that system, that
I will spend my whole life
functioning outside of it
and that I will do every-
thing in my power to stop
its insensitive destruction
of woman's soul.

~

4

By Linda T.

Children can be amazingly per-
ceptive. My lover, Linda,
went with me to my parents
last Christmas, just as any
happily married couple would.
Everyone was polite to her,
as my roommate; and only
slowly pieced together their
suspicions that our relation-
ship might be different. Ex-
cept for my six-year-old nep-
hew. Kent immediately sensed
our feelings for each other,
accepted it, and put it all
into the only model he knew:
Linda was my husband. Even
though her name was feminine
she obviously had to be a
boy. When we insisted that
she was a girl, he just pro-
ceeded to ask other people,
hoping to eventually find
someone who agreed she was

a boy. The really intri-
guing part was that he also
recognized the sexuality of
the situation. Although we
had never even held hands in
his presence at one point he
teasingly delivered a de-
scriptive monologue on the
subject. "I know what you do
in bed—You hug and kiss and
everything." (giggle)

And he was six years old!

CONT. FROM PG. 7
MARIE LOVES ROSEMARY.
"Rosemary."
"Marie."
"I got your letter today."
"Yes."

"I read something about you and
Jim."

"Oh Marie, he's so great! You

have to meet him."

"You said you were going to
stay there with him. I thought
you would come to Denver?"
“Well, I told him about
you and me. He said he was
sure it's just a childish

girlfriend relationship we
should have had in high school.
He's a psych major, you know,

and we talk a lot about, well,
maybe we'll both be out some-
time to visit you this summer."
"No. No don't do that;
don't. I'll see you

Goodbye."

the rest of the evening, every-
thing was silent. She sat
in front of the window like so
many before, looking
into a street that led
into an empty city here.
What did she have in the fu-
ture now to look forward to?
But remember, now is what is
important. The happiness now
justifies living for the
future, or was it the hap-
piness of the future that jus-
tifies living now?

SUSTAINING BOND - cont From 3:5
specific criteria that have
been developed, groups can
request either
1. short term grants

2. long term grants
3. short term loans
4. long term loans

Others who represent a group
doing valuable community work
can become part of the board
by asking someone on the
board to sponsor her or his
group after which a discussion
and vote will take place.

For more information contact

Kathy 3

895-5430

the

ind
color
chauvinism cer
according to
With chauvinism

L. Brandt

If you're a woman and you have  
a degree in communications  
there are few opportunities  
open to you in a male-dominated  
broadcasting industry.  

What can you do to combat the  
inequities of the employment  
situation?  

One group of women in Denver  
have faced this problem by  
starting their own radio  
station. Begun by Yvonne  
Stith two months ago, the  

group ranges in age from 18  
to 65. Its chief goal is to  

offer employment to women who  

are in communications in the  
broadcasting field.  
The group plans on programming  

that includes a wide variety  

of music performed by women,  

consumer information and news  
that will  

items of  

human interest  
the scene  
included.  
children  
the entire  

to avoid the  
condescending approach of  
many actual producers of  
teen programs.  
The station will report on  
literature,  

The Woman's Voice  
Bookstore  

South Pearl St.  
DENVER  

733-1178  

ISTELFINK COUNTRY  
BOOKSTORE  

for clothes, hats,  

D MADE  
the store by  
TporTeey  

CITE 17 AVE.  

Also  
to be a  
foreign  

for  

countries,  
music and  

these countries.  
history will be discussed as  
well as the profiles of women  
in politics.  

women in  
women in  

receiving service for women  

There will be a medical program  
where such topics as V.D.  
mechanics program  
learn how to  
their car or appliances  
radio lecture,  

will be discussed.  
also be a  
where women can  

So far they have  
more encouragement than  
opposition from the men in  

the broadcasting field and  
to measure public support  
they are conducting a telephone  
survey of this area.  

To raise money they are organizing  
a concert in the  
alley. They hope this will  
include many well-known female  
artists from all over  

the country. The funds from  
this project would be used  

to purchase a station. They  
need to raise enough for one  
year's operating expenses  

and a down payment on the  
station. They were officially  
incorporated on August 10,  

1977 as  

Meetings are held every Sunday  
at St. Thomas Episcopal  
Church at 22nd Ave. and Dexter  
at 7:00 p.m.  

For further information contact  
Yvonne Stith, 4628 Batavia Pl.,  
Denver, 353-2176 or Camilla  
Barnett, 1702 Billings #204,  
Aurora, 366-7270.  

EMANCIPATION  
The sleeve of your shirt is  
slung around my neck like a noose but  
I will wipe my nose against your arm  
before I'll hang from you.  
"Chocolate"  

WICCE  

A Lesbian/Feminist newspaper.  
Published monthly in Philadelphia, PA.  

For more information write  
Judith Faulkner  

Phila. Women's Liberation  
Center  

4634 Chester Avenue  
Phila, PA. 19143  

EVERY BODY LID OF BOULDER OFFERS NATURAL~ BIODEGRADABLE BODY PRODUCTS (SOAPS, SHAMPOOS,  
LOTIONS, CREAMS, OILS, FRAGRANCES). WE ENCOURAGE  
RECYCLING BY GIVING A 20¢ DISCOUNT ON EACH REFILL.  

13

"ARMY SISTERHOOD? ~~

Do you wonder if Lesbians  
and women in general possess  
Sisterhood in the Women's Army  
Corps? Well, you can stop  
wondering; they don't. There  
may be a few individuals here  
and there, mostly there, but  
the general view presents  
back-stabbing and "save-your-  
own-ass" attitudes. Most of  
the women in the Army are  
Lesbians, not all of them  
though. This majority consists  
of many career women and most  
definitely "lifers". The rest  
are young women entering the  
service right out of high  
school or college. Many are  
already gay when they enter  
but many women are brought out  
after entering. The big, bad,  
sexual perversion a woman  
heard about from her parents  
and friends before joining,  
suddenly becomes very natural  
and she discovers there are  
other women that feel just  
like her. So, she lets it all  
hang out, and acts naturally;  
acts the way she would have  
before society's blind, narrow  

minded claws sank into her  

and brainwashed her. However,  
the Army isn't the ideal place  
for one to discover herself.  
The Army considers homo-  
sexuality a sexual perversion,  
and proof of one's sexual  
practice in this field can  
lead to an undesirable dis-  
charge. However, in an almost  
heroic attempt to protect its  
best workers, it has made it  
more difficult to be boarded  
out on this charge. In the  
past, it took only a pen in a  

gossip's hand to ruin a woman's  

career, or present job. Now,  
pictures, witnesses, and  
statements must be presented  
before a board of officers  
will even be staffed. The reasoning  
behind this change could have  
been motivated by any of the  
following: 1) A gossip or busy-  
body could ruin an innocent  
woman's career because of her  
dislike for her or jealousy.  

2) Women, heterosexual or homo-  
sexual, could sign themselves  
out as a lesbian if they were  
sick of the Army. 3) And fin-  
ally, because of a confidential  
survey, the Army has discovered  
its most efficient workers  
are usually gay.  

In any event, the gay women  
in the Army aren't the best  
sisters, (and I use the term  
‘sisters' lightly).  

For instance, a woman of  
rank will unveil her sister of  
lower rank to make herself  
look good, or "straight". This  
usually doesn't happen right  
out of thin air. The woman of  
lower rank may be suspected  
and with a little help from  
her "friends", the action can  
be completed. This also hap-  
pens frequently between women  
of equal rank and not always  

involves sexuality. So you  
see, you're never really safe.  
Often, a gay orderly room  
(administrative personnel),  
will "hang" someone if they  
don't like her, feel she knows  
too much about them, or a  

"make tentative plans.  

clique close to them  
of her. If they  
have enough evidence to get  
discharged, they can usually  
transfer them to another unit  
under a troublemaker label, or  
at the least, just plain cause  
her a lot of hell and hassle.  
When they do this,  
often hoping for a breaking  
point. Not all orderly rooms  
are this way, nor all WACS.  
But, I'm only striving to let  
the rust show besides the shin-  
ing silver.  

I heard a rumor before I  
was discharged, that the Army  
may legalize homosexuality  
because of the survey I  
mentioned above. Will this change  
the sisterhood scene? I cer-  
tainly hope so!  

WOMANNING A BOOTH -- I’m at the  

Lesbian Center booth during the  

Women's Festival which was soon-  

sponsored by L.O.V.E. in August.  

The Denver Lesbian Cen-  
ter has been considering the  
possibility of a regional  
conference some time this  
year. We have heard of les-  
bian groups in Boulder, Ft.  
Collins, Colorado Springs,  
Manitou Springs and Albuquer-  
que; and we suspect there may  
be others.  

One idea we have dis-  
cussed is that of a planning  
session during Thanksgiving  
weekend. This would be a  
time for representatives from  
each interested group to set  
together, share ideas, and  
These  
plans could then be taken  
back to the local groups and  
revised as necessary. Hope-  
fully we can avoid at least  
some of the tensions that  
seem to come with conferen-  
ces.  

If you are interested,  
please let us know. We are  
at 1895 Lafayette  

Denver, Colorado  

(505-573-6604).  

ASK  
A LEZ  

Dear Aggie,  

I am a 27-year-old  
However, I find  
I have been attracted to a  

Dear Aggie,  
I understand that due to  

weird and abnormal sex  

practices, many Lesbians  

is this really true?  
A Reader From Chicago  

Dear Aggie,  

In my class on sex  
ual perversion, our teacher  
told us that one queer can  
tell another a mile away.  
Being a lesbian I've tried  
making passes on other women  
who I thought were dykes,  

So far all I've gotten is  
kicked, slapped in the face,  
and arrested. Could my prof  
be wrong?  

Leslie Gay  

Dear Les,  

No, your prof isn't wrong.  
Our society is now suffering  
from a bad case of "closetism".  
Many women do not want their  
sexual identity revealed,  
like your Mother for instance.  

Aggie  

*** Get Aggie's free leaflets  
for teens: “Petting With Your  
Pet", "Straight From The Horse's  
Mouth", and "Questions Shrinks  
Ask". Don't delay!  

WE ARE YOUR WORST FEARS  

AND YOUR BEST FANTASIES"

WOMEN’S COFFEEHOUSE OPENS OCT. 8th

There will be a place open to all women, young or older, from diverse sect ions of the Denver community, etc. Here women will be able to socialize freely with other women while being entertained.

Present This Coupon for a Free Treat! Antique & Used

* GRANDE GIOVANNIS *

Excellent Italian Cuisine.

3230 East Sixth Avenue, Denver, Colorado

reasonable prices

"GOOD HOME MADE MEXICAN FOOD!"

ALICIA'S MEXICAN FOOD Eat Here Or Take Out.

Phone: 777-9904 Located at 287 South Downing.

APPROACHING

LAVENDER

A Very Social Place.

* COFFEES... *
* TEAS *
* CHEESES *

Gay Coalition 8-3 Fri. Night 1122 E. 17th Ave. 25¢ Contribution.

CATCH THE SUN!

Stained Glass by Cobweb Studios Paintings by Dorothy Trent Jewelry by Maida

Next door to The Woman's Voice

Cobweb Studios

665 So. Pearl; Denver

CONT. FROM PAGE 10

Feminist Reviews

are recorded that we are all too familiar with but which nonetheless need to be re-counted.

A full two pages are given to a discussion of the psychology professions. Several appalling case histories are given and the truth revealed about the psychology professions' seemingly total ineptitude in dealing with homosexuality.

The bar scene is examined honestly for what it is and what it provides women. In the bars, the book says, "booze flows, alcoholism is encouraged and sometimes fights break out." But while lamenting that there are few places that aren't out to make money off of us, we are reminded that "there is no other place to be with lots of other gay women, open and unashamed, to dance, hold each other close..."

The single longest topic division is the topic entitled “Loving.” Again, we find extremely moving stories from the lives of women dealing with such things as coming out, daring to fall in love with a woman, dealing with jealousy, and the dynamics of a loving lesbian relationship.

Also, in "In America They Call Us Dykes," a working-class woman describes her life and writes a poem criticizing middle-class women for their "liberalism" and ignorance of their own class privilege. Lesbian motherhood is the topic dealt with, and here we find discussions of informing one's children of one's lesbianism, raising children without a man, and lesbians' fight for the custody of their children.

At full value, Our Bodies, Our Selves is extremely honest and informative and breaks through the many previous taboos and unspokens of female sexuality, physiology, and health care. Some of the rest of the book may not be of TREMENDOUS interest to lesbians (chapters on birth control, childbearing, heterosexual sexuality) but certainly the chapters on nutrition, exercise, self-defense, menopause, the health care system, etc. pertain to lesbians as well as to heterosexual women. I only regret the first edition's liberal attitude toward and almost total dismissal of lesbianism.

FINE CUSTOM JEWELRY at 723 E. 7th AVE, DENVER

KATHY PRITCHETT — 10:30-6:00

SMILE IF YOU'RE A LESBIAN

Photograph by Linda Lane

?

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 1, no. 5, Oct.-Nov. 1973.  
Archives of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/JPGRAN202820622/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=  
bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.