25¢

July, 1974

Down  
1. Familiar name of doll  
9. Lihat You +> someone we are to be. who Calls YOU "Chick."

5. Type of cola  
2. First name of great religious leader in America  

3. Organization,  
4. Abrev. for spaceship  
3. Same as 43 Across.

From outer space.  
4. Stubborn animal.  
GA. Exclamation.  
8. Punter < journalist of 10's  
9. British white crystalline who was Sister-in-law of a man.  

10. O-choo train Company (abrev).  
16. Abrev. for one of country.  
12. Name of movie about Greece -- French and U.S. Imperialism.  

14. What the press thinks we * Manhattan (abrev).

Owe all ABOUT 2 cents.  
24. What men can no longer define for us.  

26. Years.  
31. A lot of function or  

22. Teenager.  
43. An exact measurement (abrev.)  
25. Sub x ignoring nouns of  
24. Abrev. for size of "quis bes achon for  

Friend,"  
41. Type of horse (Capes)  
24. Most women's primary concern.  
48. Bat a Under!  
51. Degree.  
33. Most used word in male vocabulary.  

BA. Eget We strongest  
people in the world.  
3. Ti coat line or Sex.  
48. Great area in Chemistry.  
44. Eer pronoun.  
46. Last name of woman whose  

First name means “temporary.”  

“How we deal with unnameable situations -  

2  

Puzzle by Anne Bennett  

Answers:  

“ujuolWW 1xX8uU payULd aq [|[M 18A09  

UO 2/ZZNq PIOMSSOJD OL YSMSNV = * * "“QUOULE pue - }S9}U09 Kajyaod  
@0404 YSe] APUOUIW - 21e4 S}Ay Aopjnog  
iVOW HOOMOg - s1ej}/EeM “SA SPUBDIYD ‘opisul  

junior S. UsWOM OpPeBIOjOyg

Chicanas Fight Welfare Injustices

Carol Lease

Chicana Welfare Rights is a
nationally organized, non-
funded group that functions
solely through the volunteer
work of welfare mothers, and
deals principally with welfare
injustice against the Chicano
community. The Chicanas
who founded this organization
had worked with the National
Welfare Rights Organization
which is, according to Patricia
Estrada who works with
Chicana Welfare Rights in
Colorado, “a predominately
black-interest group. One
reason we broke away from
NWRO was that they wouldn’t
recognize the need to have
forms printed in Spanish.”

The national headquarters
of Chicana Welfare Rights is
in Los Angeles with Alicia
Escalante as its head. Nation-
ally, the organization is in the
process of challenging the
Talmadge Amendment Public
Law 92-223 to the Social
Security Act which requires

those in need of public
assistance to register for
employment at the Depart-
ment of Employment or to
participate in the Work Incen-
tive Program (WIN). Locally,
the organization is primarily
fighting the inequities and
injustices of the welfare
system, and has become
involved in cases they term
“Parent Abuse” by the Denver
General Hospital, the Child
Welfare section of the Denver
Department of Welfare and the
Juvenile Courts.

The deaths of two children
earlier this year from child
abuse that wasn't recognized
as such or dealt with by
official agencies despite the
pleas of at least one parent
of one child and hospital and
social agency workers, has
created an “overreactionary
flood of suspected child
abuse and child neglect
cases,” says Ms. Estrada.
These cases have resulted in

More on Page 15

Talmadge

Welfare

Anna Nieto-Gomez

Amendment

Wages

The Talmadge Amendment to the Social Security Act requires
all those in need of public assistance to either register for work
at the Department of Employment or participate in the Work

Incentive Program (WIN).
The Chicana Welfare Rights
organization believes that to
require people to work when
they need food, clothing and
shelter is in direct contradic-
tion to the philosophy of the
Social Security Act to help
people in need. The Talmadge
Amendment cannot help peo-
ple get off welfare. People are
required to register and to
look for work although jobs do
not exist. If they do find work,
they will work for their welfare
check and not for a minimum
wage. Supportive services,
child care and vocational re-
habilitation necessary to en-
able people to look for jobs
are nonexistent. Government
training programs have failed
to provide employable people.
The rights of women are
denied when a law forces a
woman to work outside the
home. It also ignores the right
of a family to stay together.
“Rider” Not Discussed
The Talmadge Amendment
was approved by both the
House and the Senate as a
rider to a bill which provided
burial payments to bereaved
relatives of deceased service-
men whose bodies could not
be recovered for burial from
Vietnam. Discussion — sur-
rounding the actual Amend-
ment arose from only one
Congressman, Mr. Byrnes of
Wisconsin. He felt that not
enough information nor dis-
cussion had been presented
about the bill. He also pointed
out that the bill had not been
totally printed more than a day
before presentation to enable
time to read and study the bill
- much less approve it.
Congressperson Gross
supported Mr. Byrnes in
stating he had mistakenly

thought he was approving
only a burial bill. However,
Congressperson Mills of Ar-
kansas replied that this was
the same bill Congress had
passed in 1972, but due to
disagreements (not identi-
fied), it was not approved.
Therefore, the only change
required would be to change
1972 to 1973. He also
reasoned that since the
session soon had to adjourn,
there was insufficient time to
explain the bill.

Byrnes withdrew his objec-
tion and the Talmadge A-
mendment was passed unani-
mously by 326 Congressmen
with 105 members absent.

The Chicana Welfare Rights
Organization hopes to call to
the attention of the taxpayers
the fact that most Congress-
men did not even know what
bill they were passing, al-
though they voted on spend-
ing millions of the taxpayers’
dollars. In addition, the
Chicanas are asking for indi-
vidual responses from Con-
gress members as to their
stand on the Talmadge A-
mendment in order to call
their attention to what can be
done.

At present, the Talmadge
Amendment is in its registra-
tion phase in Denver. In the
surrounding rural area, it is
being implemented through a
demonstration project called
the Public Service Employ-
ment (PSE). To date, the
program has been considered
a “success” in lowering the
welfare rolls because people
have not registered. The low
number of registrants is
played up as though welfare
recipients had been placed
into jobs.

PSE Required

The purpose of the Public
Service Employment is to
assist registrants to become
job-ready by giving them the
opportunity to learn new
skills, gain valuable work
experience, and to develop a
work history. Participation is
a requirement for welfare
eligibility. The registrants do
not receive a wage for their
PSE activity. They merely
work for their welfare check.
Another problem is that actual
employment opportunity does
not exist.

PSE participants do not
qualify for union jobs, nor for
unfilled vacant positions if
they are “established” job
positions, or jobs advertised
in the newspapers. PSE
participants qualify only for
“useful public services jobs
not otherwise accomplished.”
Such jobs need not be
full-time either. In other
words, PSEs qualify for the
jobs which don’t exist and are
trained (?) for undefined jobs.

Each registrant is required
to conduct an adequate job
search. If she discourages the
employers to hire her, has a
negative attitude, or in her
personal appearance is unac-
ceptable to employers, she is
considered to have conducted
an inadequate job search and,

therefore, is ineligible for
welfare.
Thus, if she does not have

the money to dress in an
appealing manner for the
employer's eye, she is out of
luck. If she tells the employer
that she does not like the job,
and that she could do
something better for a better
wage, she is out of luck. If she
complains about the condi-
tions surrounding her em-
ployment facilities, she is out

of luck. Her actions will be
considered as discouraging
the employer, and as a
negative attitude. In other
words, she neither has the
right to choose her employer,
nor her working conditions.
Neither does she have the
freedom to dissent, nor to tell
the truth.
WIN Program a Failure

The WIN program is regarded
by many as a failure. Only
11% of 223,302 people en-
rolled were placed in jobs.
Many programs offered meet-
ings and pep talks instead of
training. Fifty percent of the
frustrated, disappointed en-
rollees dropped out of the
programs as a result. Others
were discouraged due to bu-
reaucratic breakdowns which
slowed, or stopped financial
aid. Although many could
have taken advantage of more
meaningful programs out of
WIN, such programs would
not be sanctioned for sti-
pends. Only 40% of those
people placed in jobs are
receiving an annual income.
These jobs still require fami-
lies to stay on welfare. The 67
million dollars spent in the

More on Page 11

RIP BOOKSTORE
737 E. 17th Ave.

canon weruys SECTION

Aso BS
CHA, Coen

£7e,

bo taba etad
AMARCHIS,, #. 5. (PE RIALIS M4,

AL BOOKS 20% OFF AT
CES

Mee Ti
42-6

Tweed - Saturday lag

Big Mama Rag - Vol. 3 - No. 1

Bertha Romero is a Peace Corps Volunteer in Thailand who teaches English to blind students from kindergarten to the eighth grade. She has been in Thailand since January and has the following to say about women in Thai society.

Sumalee is a Thai woman, very verbal and active in women’s rights. She was writing articles every week until recently - about two months ago - and is still behind the lights. Rumor has it that many Thai (both men and women) have been offended by her writings and she was advised to be more careful. Also, there might be fear for her life because she apparently “knows too much.” Another woman journalist, an American named Claudia Ross, was murdered in Bangkok about that same time (two months ago). So things are slowly dying down - it’s funny how the mass media is never really made aware of how things turn out in the end. But she hasn't been writing at all lately.

I've learned too, that Thai women are very aggressive, equal women speaking out. Sumalee also worked on a draft of the constitution to include women’s rights, wages, improved job conditions, etc. - but the House turned it down. The bill was not published, and the only thing people read in the papers was: “She was asked to remove herself from the room because she had her legs crossed. She refused, stating that all the men had their legs crossed and if she was asked to leave they should be too. (She was also the only woman there.)” She was finally physically removed, I've gathered. And when I mention her name to some Thais, either men or women, they immediately say “She's foolish and nobody pays attention to her anyway.” That’s the way it is in Thailand.

Feminist College to Open

With more than 1,000 colleges offering women’s studies courses and 80 making it possible to earn a degree in same, is a college devoted to feminism necessary?

Such a college - it will be called an institute - will open in the summer of 1975. Founded by feminist activists, Sagaris will answer the need for the study of unadulterated feminist philosophy.

Dr. Joan Peters, one of the founders, said in an interview that there will be greater academic freedom than found at any college or university offering women’s studies.

“Present courses leave something to be desired,” she said. “In many schools the women’s studies are controlled by men or locked into a system that does not allow adequate freedom for maximum intellectual growth.”

Dr. Peters, of Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., and Brooklyn, N.Y., told how the institute got its name.

“The name was taken from the Sagaris, the double-edged sword of the ancient Amazons, who, according to mythology, were militant only when necessary to protect themselves from aggressors.”

The Amazons, mythology holds, were powerfully strong women who waged war on the oppressors, and Dr. Peters stressed that they take Sagaris in a political and not a military sense.

“Our institute, which we call an institute to allow ourselves the intellectual freedom not possible in establishment colleges, is meant to be a feminist-humanist alternative to existing patriarchal society schools of higher education,” Dr. Peters said.

The founders include writers, teachers, and activists. Among them is Blanche Boyd, author of a book titled “Nerves.” Also involved, according to Dr. Peters, is Ti-Grace Atkinson, pioneer theoretician of the women’s movement in America.

‘Girl’ Gets $9,000.

Mary Joyce, 26, who complained to her boss about calling her “the girl,” and a day later she was fired, will get $9,000 from her former employer by order of the New York State Human Rights Division. Miss Joyce said in her complaint she was fired after telling assistant vice president John Maloney of AVCO Financial Services, Inc., she didn't like being called “the girl” when her title was “Commercial Paper Salesperson.”

She said she was called in the next day and dismissed on grounds of “misconduct.” Under a settlement signed by both sides, AVCO will pay her $9,000 and give her a mutually agreed upon letter of recommendation informing future employers she was “capable, competent, and satisfactory.”

Help Services

ABORTION COUNSELING
Alternatives, Inc. 1345 Spruce St., Boulder

4645 E. Colfax

449-6565
321-0567
757-4442

Creative Health Services
Ministerial Council
Abortion Referral and Counseling Service
Boulder Valley Clinic

BIRTH CONTROL
Planned Parenthood

COMMUNICATION
Big Mama Rag
Institute Mt. West

COMMUNITY RESOURCES
Capital Hill Tenants Union
Common Market Food Coop
St. Andrews Church
Rape Line

S.E. Denver Neighborhood Services

Boulder Gay Lib.

1400 Lafayette
2346 Broadway

255-2009
442-5160

2030 E. 20th Ave. 388-4777

1724 Gaylord
2096 Emerson

322-2010
573-6394

1460 Pennsylvania
1100 Champa
2015 Glenarm

825-2329
893-3430
255-9775

321-8191
443-2211
x8567

Denver Gay Coalition 778-6536

1450 Pennsylvania

EMPLOYMENT
Better Jobs for Women
Womanpower

1545 Tremont
2475 Broadway #12
Boulder

244-4189

442-5468

HEALTH SERVICES

Colo. Gen. Hosp. Clinics

Creative Health Services

Colo. Springs Women’s Health

Denver Metro Health Clinic

Hip Health Center

People’s Clinic

Boulder Valley Clinic

LEGAL SERVICES

Big Mama Rag

LITERATURE

Woman's Voice Bookstore

Radical Information Project

WOMEN’S GROUPS

Boulder Women’s Center

Ft. Collins Women’s Center

Women in Transition

4200 E. 9th Ave.
4645 E. Colfax

394-8581
321-0567

409 E. Fontanero
645 Bannock

1304 Elati
999 Alpine, Boulder

2346 Broadway

574-6666
222-3344
449-6050
442-5160

1724 Gaylord 322-2010

673 S. Pearl
737 E. 17th

733-1178
825-7413

9th & Arapahoe
629 Howes St.

1895 Lafayette 623-4349
443-2211

x7735

449-1590

National Organization for Women

Women in Community Service

Denver Women’s Resource Center

Women’s Resource Center, DU

1400 Lafayette 831-7707

623-4349
1545 Tremont 222-0870

753-3511

Big Mama Rag Staff

Coordinators
Jackie Bryson
Linda Fowler

Business Manager
Becky Morgenstern

Photography Editor
Babs Nash

Graphics Editor
Jane Butler

Advertising Manager
Ronnie Martin

Feature Editor
Carol Lease

News Editors

Cover design by Bourge Miller

Contributors
Carolyn Agosta
Lauren Benjamin
Glenna Booth
Jan Eastburn
Donna Good
Carol Hansford
Barbara Hume

Maureen Mrizek
Elissa Meyer
Chocolate Waters
Pavita Miller
Joyce Parker

Poetry Editor Cindy Philip

Sandy Belgrade

Layout Editor
Betsy Peto

Pam Scooros
Angela Wilson
Anne Zeigler

Big Mama Rag is a feminist periodical published monthly for the women of Colorado. Submit poetry and manuscripts to BMR by the fifteenth of each month and enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope. We reserve the right to edit all material. BMR is published monthly by Big Mama Rag, a non-profit corporation. Our office is at 1724 Gaylord, Denver, Colorado, 80206. Office hours are from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday thru Friday. Call us at 322-2010.

Interview ~—

Minority Women’s Task Force

Carol Lease

In March, the Minority Women’s Task Force of the Denver chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) decided to leave the nationally recognized women’s rights group and become an independent organization, retaining its original name while working on issues directly related to minority women in Colorado. Accounts of the incident were published with an anti-feminist, anti-woman bias. The issues and the ideas of the women involved in the separation were ignored. The following has been written about the split after conversations with Corina Aragon, chairperson of the Minority Women’s Task Force (MWTF), and Charlotte Hebeler, president of the Denver chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW).

The Minority Women’s Task Force was formed to research and act on problems that often disproportionately affect minority women rather than non-minority women. The Woman's Prison at Canon City is currently one focal point for action. Some women on the Task Force were members of NOW and others were not. The committee itself was open only to minority women (although any woman could participate in the activities of the Task Force) because the presence of non-minority women usually precipitated problems with control and decision-making that “happened so many times” in other committees with mixed minority and non-minority membership. “Minority women wanted their own identity. They wouldn’t have it with white women telling them what to do,” according to a present member of NOW.

There was considerable argument over the issues of exclusive involvement of minority women in only minority-related issues and the exclusive control of all Task Force decisions by minority women. “Perhaps that’s right,” says Corina Aragon. “Maybe minority women need to work on issues relevant to ourselves and our lives so we can develop our own strengths and self-confidence. Then we can extend ourselves to other women-related issues.”

Task Forces report in at Board meetings of NOW and according to Charlotte Hebeler, each Task Force “bases its own strategy on its own wisdom but must be willing to change strategy if the Board suggests it. This control was unacceptable to the women in the Minority Women’s Task Force.”

Task Force Leaves NOW

The final decision to leave NOW came after a wine and fondue meeting lasting almost 3 hours. Remaining within the nationally recognized organization included the advantages of retaining the clout that NOW wields, using its resources of lobbying, expertise, and working with and influencing attitudes of non-minority women.

Disadvantages included the continuous problem of insensitivity among many non-minority women, “and we didn’t want to spend our time” in arguments and discussion about why the Task Force wants to do certain things and why minority women feel the way they do. When I called NOW the next day to tell them our decision, the woman who answered the phone said that “we are sort of sorry to hear that.”

“Well, I was very sorry to have to say that we had voted to leave NOW. I did not vote to do it but I don’t regret the decision to leave. If I were in the white woman’s position,” continues Corina Aragon, “I would have attended the Minority Women’s Task Force meetings, humbled myself, shown concern for minority women’s problems, and tried to work it out.

“It seems that the real problem was a lack of communication, sincere communication from woman to woman. I hope that we can get back to the point where we can really communicate.” Charlotte Hebeler’s feeling was that the Task Force needed “to accomplish what they needed to accomplish on their own...to grow, develop their own wisdom, their own strategy, to make their own mistakes. There was some sort of feeling that even if we do it wrong, at least we do it. But it was a very amicable split... we still communicate...many of us in NOW have had the same kinds of feelings about doing it on our own. It's sad in a way to lose their knowledge and wisdom but in another way it’s kind of neat when somebody says we’re going to do it on our own.”

There is currently no Task Force in NOW that deals with the minority woman's problems. The minority women that are presently in NOW seem to be involved in and committed to other things.

Sociologist’s Nightmare

NOW is a “sociologist's nightmare,” says Ms. Hebeler. “We are constantly getting new people with varying levels of consciousness to minority problems. Some members are probably racist and will remain so all their lives - but they are not turned off by this Denver chapter because there are so many things to do in the organization. There is concern on the Board to have strong minority participation in NOW...we need to find that minority person to come forward to the Board to do this...we have an informal, personal relationship with our minority members, so it’s not a threatening thing but a growth-enhancing thing. Most of us see minority women as women only, not as women and members of a minority. We realize that minority women have special, unique problems that require continuing processes of consciousness-raising in this group and we will continue to do it.”

Meanwhile, the Minority Women's Task Force is continuing to focus its attention on the Women’s Prison at Canon City. On July 5, they will help to produce a filmed documentary on women prisoners called “The Hidden Minority” to be telecast on Denver NOW on channel 2, KWGN-TV.

Target: Canon City

“Sexism in the Colorado prison system is unbelievable, shocking,” Ms. Aragon reports. Before the Minority Women’s Task Force visited Canon City, federal and state funds provided rehabilitation and pre-parole programs that were exclusively for men. Of course, this is a blatant violation of the law, but I suppose that the wardens and...

More on Page 12

Petition Alleges Discrimination; Sparks KOA Boycott

Carol Lease

A coalition of women and minorities has filed a petition with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to deny KOA its broadcast license renewal because of alleged discrimination against women and minorities. The coalition is instituting a boycott to give their petition a financial bite.

The coalition is comprised of the Colorado Committee on the Mass Media and the Spanish-surnamed, the National Organization for Women (NOW), the Mass Media Task Force, Sundiata, Inc., and the American Indian Movement (AIM).

The controversy centers around the under-utilization of and discrimination towards women and minorities in positions at the station and discriminatory programming concerning women and minorities.

The coalition is asking all people to support their boycott of General Electric products and of companies advertising with GE broadcasting stations KOA-TV, KOA-AM, and KOAQ-FM radio until an acceptable agreement can be reached.

The coalition is also asking people to write letters to the management at KOA encouraging the station to settle the dispute.

KWGN-TV Agreement

The coalition also filed a petition of denial of broadcast license with the FCC against KWGN Television, channel 2. An agreement was reached on May 22 that resulted in the withdrawal of the petition.

More on Page 12

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 1

Cable TV: Women and the Media

Elissa Meyer

Occasionally I have heard Cable Television referred to as an alter-
native to broadcast television, the hour after hour barrage of
stereotypes and triviality that comes into peoples’ homes through
the airwaves. Cable television is different; it is brought to homes
through wires which carry electronic signals. The range of channels
which can be brought in through the cable is much wider, and it can
provide a much more diverse and realistic selection of program-
ming. Unfortunately, after attending the national convention of the
National Cable Television Association, I feel less than hopeful
about Cable Television’s potential.

I had hoped that the conven-

tion would have one redeeming

factor—that was the Public
Access activity. According to
FCC regulations, when a cable
company receives a franchise to
go into an area, it must provide at
least one Public Access channel
through the cable. When that
channel becomes occupied dur-
ing a specified period of time, the
company is obligated to open
another channel. Under the FCC
guidelines these channels
would make studio time
available to any individual or
group with a TV message at no
cost. Again, the possibilities for
utilizing television as a com-
munications tool under this
system are opened up as never
before. So what is really happen-
ing in these two areas, Cable
Television and Public Access,
especially in terms of changing
attitudes and opportunities for
women?
Profits or People?

On arrival at the Conrad Hilton
in Chicago, the location for the
NCTA Convention, I began to
sense the tone which pervaded
the entire four days: making
Cable a profitable business.
Over three thousand smartly-
suited businessmen were
gathering to shake right hands
and to increase assets. The
overwhelming reality is that it
does take money to lay miles of
cable throughout a geographic
area, and that in order to sell
subscriptions to the cable,
Cablecasters think they must
have slick, pre-packaged
productions to compete with
broadcast. But in this writer's
opinion, they are missing the
point. They ignore the explosive
possibility that if people knew
they could get easy access to TV
time and to the necessary
production tools through Cable,
they would be more likely to sup-
port it. Cablecasters downplay
Public Access because of what
they consider the mediocre
quality of the programming
produced by the newly-
enfranchised public who have
taken advantage of existing
Public Access channels.

As to be expected, this
chauvinistic attitude was ex-
tended to and reflected in the
roles of women at the conven-
tion. There were few women
there who represented top ad-
ministrative positions in Cable;
there were a small minority of
women who were production
managers for Public Access and
local origination programming in
small metropolitan centers. But
the most conspicuous women at
the convention were those not in
positions of responsibility, but
rather those who were dressed
and made-up as models at the
equipment exhibits. In this
multi-million dollar jungle of
sophisticated mixers, switchers,
cameras, and monitors, these
women were planted by the
manufacturers to make their
brands more attractive and
saleable. If this is the mentality
of the Cablecasters, we can ex-
pect little in the way of change in
the programming provided by
them as opposed to present
programming over broadcast
television.
Best Production of the Year
I must admit, the “gentlemen”
did give token recognition to the
work of women in the field of
Cable Television. At the NCTA
Awards Ceremony, Ms. Kim
Beaman and Ms. Nancy Hauser,
the production managers for
Public Access and Local Origina-
tion programming in Jackson,
Michigan, received five top
awards including Best Produc-
tion of the Year for a videotape
called ‘Nancy.’ The tape is a
sensitive, delicate portrayal of a
woman, mother and wife, who is

approaching middle age and
feels trapped by her cir-
cumstances. In a skillful inter-

view style, Ms. Hauser and Ms.
Beaman show Nancy as her
own, individual way of life is
beginning to take shape in her
mind and is starting to unfold in
her interactions with her family
and outside her home in her ac-
tivities. Well deserving of the

acclaim, the tape’s co-producers
accepted the awards, but later
expressed some of their growing
cynicism.

At an ad hoc Women's
Caucus, twenty-five women
attending the convention
gathered to express rising
alienation with Cablecasting. At
this forum, Kim and Nancy
revealed the frustrations of their
work. They work full time for
part-time salaries, making them
the lowest paid employees
among the professional staff.
They also told us that “Nancy”
was one tape of a series shown
weekly which they created and
produced themselves about the
local community. Using portable
videotaping equipment, they
went out into the Jackson area

Filmmaker Claudia Weill shoots a scene from the T.V. special, “Joyce at 34.”

and found people, activities and
programs of local interest. From
these hours of tape they distilled
a format, and after many ad-
ditional hours of editing and

technical work, they had a final

set of polished programs which
truly realized the function of
Cable TV. This series informed
the community about itself; it

was not just about
celebrities; and it began a real
communications system—not
just from the studio to the home,
but also from the home to the
studio.

None of this valuable work
has been recognized. Even the
award-winning “Nancy” will be
of little benefit to the women
themselves. They told us that
they would get no bonuses
because of the rewards, but that
the Cablecasters would use the
rewards as a sales pitch to get
more subscribers to the Cable.
One woman said she was leav-

ing her position to go back to

school. “I know they will hire a
man in my place, and probably at
twice the salary.” They also
know that any new local origina-
tion programming will de-
emphasize the two-way com-
munication. Cablecasters want
slick, professional looking
products; they are less in-
terested in the real people and
what they have to say.

Among the women’s caucus
were many women from the
Public Access angle of Cable.
Stations; others were just in-
terested in working with video
and using Public Access
channels as a means of distribu-
tion. Nevertheless, we had a
very different and more
frustrating form of sexism to
confront within the meetings
and programs regarding Public
Access.

To begin with, it was apparent
from the start that Public Access
was being downplayed. There
were two rooms set aside in a
far-off corner of the Hilton for
what was called the ‘Video En-
vironment.” It seemed that all
Public Access information was
to emanate from here, even
though all other aspects of Cable
had space and meetings
throughout the entire hotel.
There were a few sessions held
in other meeting rooms on
Public Access, but these leaned
heavily on the financial feasibili-
ty more than anything else.

The “Video Environment”

from the start was fraught with

problems of its own. Some of
them can be attributed to “lack
of organization,” but in my opi-
nion it suffered from a severe
case of schizophrenia. Most of
the time people were at cross-
purposes to one another. A
number of the people into Public
Access now have come from a
strange breed commonly called
“video-freaks.” They began
recognizing the potential of
video when the portable equip-
ment first came on to the market
about eight years ago. They
started experimenting with the
technology and using it to
promote alternative media. Not
surprisingly, the “video freaks”
were predominantly male, or at

least those who became most

technically advanced were. And
it seems that with their ex-
perience and development they
are moving farther away from
the rationale of alternative
media and closer to the

Channel 6.

traditional concept of pre-
produced programs. At one time
the attitude prevailed that with
the advent of portable, easy-to-
use video equipment, anyone
could be easily trained to use

television as a medium for their
message. Among some alter-

native groups this attitude still
prevails. And these groups con-
tinue to train people—elderly
groups, women's collectives,
high school students, working
people—to use the technology.
They will distribute these tapes
through any means available to
them. That could be Public
Access, broadcast, or simply
closed circuit TV showings with
a specific target audience. But
these groups generate and
proliferate knowledge and skills
about television; they demystify
the technology and promote a
powerful tool for information.

On the other hand, these
groups generally lack resources
and are up against some of the
regressive behavior of other
groups mistakenly taken as
alternatives. These others con-
trolled the ‘Video Environment”
in Chicago. I found them
overwhelmingly male-
dominated, arrogant and op-
pressive. Their primary orienta-
tion was a video product. Within
the small microcosm of the
“Video Environment,” a
hierarchy of status and prestige
emerged parallel if not identical
to the Cable System’s hierarchy.
Highest ranking appeared to be
those people who had managed
to hustle the most money, to put
together the slickest productions
with highly sophisticated
machinery, to talk to the right
man, and to get over Broadcast.
Next were the up-and-comers
who brought hours and hours of
their productions to the conven-
tion on the hope that some
Cablecaster might “discover”
them and offer them money.
Lastly were the struggling
groups trying to make some
sense out of media and with
media for their neighborhoods
and communities.

In and of themselves, produc-
tion and community television
need not be so divergent in
goals. One stresses a process
and the other a product. In one
sense the quality of tapes
created by community people

More on Page 11

nik

Letter to Denver

Feminist Guide to Tucson

May 19, 1974  
Hello

all you Denver sisters! I’m from Tucson and am

finishing a long weekend stay in Denver, which has turned out to  
be one of the best times I have had in your city. This is the first  
time I have been here alone, so I decided to try to contact some  
Feminists and check out what’s going on here.

I was a little uneasy about calling up total strangers and

saying, “Hi. My name is Barbara,

I'm from Tucson and I want to

meet some Feminists here.” But after a couple of beers and a  
long-distance call to Tucson to gain energy from my sisters

there, I got up enough courage

to make my first call.

First, I called The Women’s Voice and got the number of the  
Women in Transition (WIT) House. From there on it was easy!  
The sisters at WIT House were warm, friendly and full of  
information about what was going on in Denver--complete with  
names and telephone numbers. But most of all, they made me  
feel like an accepted friend, not a stranger to be tested out.

There has not been enough time on this visit for me to connect  
with all the programs, activities, and sisters in Denver that I have

learned about. Fortunately, I am  
returning in June and will have  
more time to follow through with  
my “mission.” Everyone that I  
did meet, however, was very interested about what was going on  
in Tucson. So it seemed a good idea to try to give you a picture of  
the situation in my town and some contacts, in case you are

interested.  
Overview of the Community  
Setting

Tucson is roughly one-third  
the size of Denver. We suffer  
from over-population, urban  
sprawl, and an unfortunate  
tendency toward “Californi-  
zation.” The community is  
surrounded by mountains,  
which gives a feeling of  
strength and security and  
allows an easy “escape” from  
the city.

I would describe the general  
atmosphere of Tucson to be  
friendly, mellow, low-parano-  
ia. There seems to be an  
attitude of co-existence so  
that it is fairly easy to pursue  
a different life-style. Contrary  
to popular opinion, Tucson is  
not a community of mostly  
retired people. Young “freaks”  
are more visible than the old  
folks.

Given the political conser-  
vatism of Arizona and the  
smaller size of Tucson, it  
came as a surprise to me to  
realize that Tucson is devel-  
oping into something of a  
“hot-spot” of Feminist activity  
in the Southwest. There is, for  
example, a lot more going on  
in Tucson than in Phoenix.  
Here is a list of some of the  
organizations and activities  
currently in Tucson.

Tucson Women’s Center -  
912 E. Sixth St. 792-1929

Provides a place for wo-  
men’s groups for meetings  
and social events. Transient  
women can crash there for up  
to two nights while they get  
their feet on the ground and  
locate other lodging. Acts as a  
resource-information center.

Generally, the center has  
two-to-four full-time residents  
who help pay the rent. Other  
donations are solicited  
through individual monthly  
pledges from local Feminists.  
Persons using the center are  
urged to contribute 25 cents  
each time.

Alternatives for Women

40 E. 14th Street, #5 884-9776  
A Feminist counseling /  
consultation service, this is  
where I fit in. In December of  

last year, three women--two  
psychologists and a social  
worker (that’s me) formed a  
partnership to create an  
alternative mental health ser-  
vice for the women of Tucson.

For us, “Alternatives” is a  
place where we can utilize our  
skills and develop new skills  
in a way that is not  
exploitative of women who  
seek our services. We heartily  
reject the traditional “thera-  
pist” role since this puts the  
“other” in the role

of “patient.”  
The therapist/patient role  
model assumes a hierarchi-  
cal, one-up / one-down  
relationship, focusing on the  
“patient's” weaknesses. It  
also makes assumptions a-  
bout the strengths and super-  
ior skills of the “therapist”  
that make us uncomfortable.  
So we prefer to act as  
consultants and friends to the  
women we work with and  
focus on their strengths.

Right now we are doing  
mostly individual work, with  
some groups going and others  
planned. Ann has a con-  
sciousness-raising group go-  
ing, and will be starting  
another soon. I have a  
Bodywork for Women group  
on Wednesday nights that  
includes yoga, massage and  
belly dancing. It’s an open  
group, so that a woman can  
drop by any Wednesday she  
feels inclined; she doesn't  
have to sign up for a series.  
Dorothy is working on a  
Lesbian Identity group.

We are a low-profit organi-  
zation. The client sets her own  
fee based on her own assess-  
ment of what she can afford.  
We explain that we need an  
average of $8 per visit and that  
every dollar above that helps  
for those who must pay less.  
It works! Most weeks we  
average close to $8 per visit.  
But we would like to find  
sources of support so that we  
aren’t totally dependent on  
fees. 

Contact: Barbara Bird, Doro-  
thy Riddle, Ann Yelott.  
Antigone’s Books - 415 N. 4th  
Ave. 792-3715

Specializing in women’s  
and children’s literature, Anti-  
gone’s is a very comfortable  

Support our advertisers and tell them Big Mama sent

you.

place to drop in if you're  
cruising through town or need  
a place to start from. Contact:  
Pat Kelly or Johnee Cunning-  
ham  
Minerva - Feminist Astrology  
Center 415 N. 4th Ave.  
792-3715

Located in the loft of  
Antigone Books, this is a  
brand new organization form-  
ed by one of the women of  
“Alternatives for Women,” a-  
long with two others. “Alter-  
natives” refers all those  
seeking astrological consul-  
tation to Minerva, since in  
order to practice astrology in  
Tucson, one must pay $300 to  
be licensed as a fortune-teller.  
YUK! Contact: Coleen Bent-  
ley, Debbie Dobson, Dorothy  
Riddle  
Women’s Self-Help and Gyn-  
ecological Clinic - 256 S.  
Scott 622-8821

A part of the Tucson Free  
Clinic, the Women's Clinic is  
open on Monday nights to  
offer free gynecological care.  
The clinic is staffed by  
volunteer Feminist-oriented  
patient advocates and nurses,  
with a local gynecologist  
standing by for consultation.  
Instruction in gynecological  

* self-help (do your own pelvic  

exam, etc.) is offered but not  
pushed on women attending  
the clinic. The atmosphere is  
warm and relaxed. Contact:  
Coleen Elegante  
Fifth Avenue House - 847 S.  
Fifth Ave. 792-1890

This is a collective formed  
by five beautiful women.  
Although a private home, it is  

a core of feminist activity in  
Tucson. It is through Fifth  
Ave. that we have established  
and maintained ties with  
women’s collectives and  
Feminist activities in Arkan-  
sas, New Mexico, Oregon and  
Washington. Contact: Ann,  
Colleen, Debbie, Leslie or  
Tina.

Men’s Consciousness Raising  
Group

Formed by several gay and  
straight men, we consider this  
group to be an important  
adjunct to the Feminist  
movement in Tucson. These  
are men who are committed to  
raising their own conscious-  
ness and breaking down  
sex-role stereotypes. We love  
them dearly and collaborate  
with them frequently. “Alter-  
natives for Women” is cur-  
rently exploring ways to work  
together, such as in providing  
some mixed women/men  
workshops for those who  
want to work on inter-sex  
relationships. Contact Jack  
Lathan 623-0994 or Perk Clark  
623-1072.

This pretty much exhausts  
my supply of information (and  
me). I'll probably learn what I  
left out when I get home. I  
hope this letter doesn’t come  
on like an underground  
Chamber of Commerce report.  
If it does, it's because I really  
love the place and most of the  
people.

Please feel free to contact  
any of the places or people I  
have mentioned--by phone,  
letter, or in person. We'd love  
to meet you!

We hope to see many of you  
at the Summer Solstice in  
New Mexico this June. In case  
you don’t know about this BIG  
EVENT, it’s a gathering of  

women from all over the west.

There will be booths, arts and  
crafts, displays, workshops,  
and all manner of goings on.  
All the Feminist businesses in  
Tucson will be closing down  
and forming a large caravan.  
See you there.

Sisterhood is not only  
powerful--it’s fun.

Barbara Bird

Tucson, Arizona

6 : ; Big Mama Vol. 3 No. 1

women’s
art

festival

Reflections.........

Photos by Carol Lease

Tapestry quilts, stained glass shifting in the cool breeze. The Boulder Mime Troupe eased the boredom of waiting for customers
to spend their money.

Editorials G, Letters

L

eh

K Koro

CLUW Begins  
Unifying Union Women

The first statewide confer-  
ence of Coalition of Labor  
Union Women (CLUW) was  
held in Denver on June 8th at  
the Albany Hotel.

The CLUW is a new,  
national organization formed  
to fight for the needs of  
working women through un-  
ion structures. It was founded  
in Chicago on March 23-24th.

“The primary purpose of  
this new coalition is to unify  
all union women in a viable  
organization, first -- to deter-  
mine our common problems  
and concerns, and second --  
to develop action programs  
within the framework of our  
unions to deal effectively with  
our objectives.

We recognize that our  
struggle goes beyond the  
borders of this nation and  
seek to link up with our  
working sisters and brothers  
throughout the world through  
concrete action of interna-  
tional workers’ solidarity.

Through unity of purpose,  
the Coalition of Labor Union  
Women will seek to accom-  
plish these goals.” CLUW  
Statement of Purpose

Colorado's first CLUW  
conference got off to a  
spirited start with Debbie  
Singer playing guitar and  
everyone singing “Union  
Maid.” There was an intro-  
ductory speech by Chairwo-  
man, Joyce Newell, followed  
by a talk by Dr. Jeanne  
Stellman, of the Oil, Chemical  
and Atomic Workers Union on

Well, hi! You must be the new  
girl for the typing pool, I’m  
your supervisor, Mr. Swiney. BN  
And you're...? { .

“Women and Health and  
Safety.” Dr. Stellman is the  
author of the book Work is  

Dangerous to Your Health. |

She said that most research  
on health hazards is done  
primarily for men, and that the  
only time they think about  
women is during pregnancy.  
“And obviously what's harm-  
ful to you when you're  
pregnant is harmful to your  
health even when you're not.”  
Stellman was followed by  
Leslie Nader, of the Amalga-  
mated Clothing Workers Un-  
ion, on “Childcare.” Ms.  
Nader talked about a union-  
sponsored day care center  
which Amalgamated Clothing  
Workers of America have  
started in Chicago, and which  
is completely free to the  
employee. It is quality day  
care that provides an enrich-  
ing, stimulating experience  
for children, and not merely  
custodial care. She said that  
eight percent of Amalgamated  
members are women and that  
childcare is not a women’s  
problem, it is a problem that  
should concern all people  
interested in the future.  
“Even Our Union Brothers”  
Irene Chandler, United  
Farmworkers Union, spoke on  
“Organizing, Strikes and Boy-  
cotts.” She said a big problem  
is that men don’t take women  
seriously and this even  
applies to our union brothers.  
“We must learn to stick  
together and let them know

More on Page 15

Dear Big Mama Rag,

My apologies for not writing  
sooner. I was really elated way  
back in January, February  
(when?) when I found your (or my)  
newspaper at the Woman’s Voice.  
It was the second issue I think,  
but I really enjoyed it. Thank you  
for the list of places where it can  
be found. I think you really cover  
a lot of ground and have a good  
variety. Do you still do a little on  
Women's History? I was really  
surprised to learn that women  
have done so much in the past,  
but the only areas that I can find  
out about are sports and  
medicine. What about law,  
politics, art, religion, etc? Do you  
have any good suggestions on  
reading? I just want you to know  
that women in Denver are  
interested in reading, but we're a  
little slow at writing.

Love you all!  
Sheri Shortridge

Ed: This issue is the ninth issue  
of BMR to date. Last year we had  
several articles on women's  
history, and would like very much  
to have more, but we have had no  
manuscripts submitted. Anyone  
interested? The BMR staff re-  
cently has been reading Mothers  
and Amazons and The First Sex.

HAWK BIG MAMA!

f  
V

My charge for condescending  
remarks is 15%.

Dear Big Mama Rag Staff:

We have read our copy of Big  
Mama Rag with interest and  
admiration for your professionalism.  
We are entering an exchange  
subscription; you will receive  
your first issue late next month.

We were the first statewide  
Feminist publication in the  
United States, according to  
research at the Women’s History  
Archive. Our first issue came out  
in January 1972. We are aware of  
only three others: New Direc-  
tions for Women in Delaware, The  
Texan Woman (I have not heard  
from them lately), and Big Mama  
Rag.

efiers home fo mama

To the Staff--and particularly to  
Linda:

I enjoyed the copy of the paper  
you just sent me. It is very well  
done, and very important, I  
believe, to the women’s move-  
ment in this area. Essential at  
this time, in fact.

Linda, I liked the article you  
did, based on your interview with  
me. It was well written, honest,  
and genuinely reflective of our  
talk, I think. Thanks.

Sincerely,

Charlotte Wolf

604 Mapleton Avenue  
Boulder, Colorado 80302

I'm here to fix your Xerox 300.

Good luck in your pioneering.  
We look forward to your future  
issues,

In sisterhood,

Paula S. Kassell

Editor, New Directions for Wo-  
men in New Jersey

Editorial  
Just Reduction of People?

The Talmadge Amendment has demonstrated that its goal is  
the reduction of the number of people on welfare - nothing else.  
Concern for the human condition of people who need assistance  
to survive in this country is probably written somewhere in a  
memo connected with this law but has never been a part of it.  
The distorted, prejudiced stereotypes that make receiving welfare  
a stigma in this society have been strengthened again and again  
through the work ethic. Expending physical or mental energy -  
does not make a person well-off, rich, or even maintain a  
sustenance level of life. Work has nothing to do with wealth. The  
survival of this economy necessitates the existence of a welfare  
class.

It is the unskilled woman, minority and non-minority, who is  
forced to prostitute herself in a meaningless, dead-end, slave  
wage job for the Department of Welfare that is unaware of and  
unresponsive to her needs. Even within these “improvement”  
programs men receive priority in training over women although  
women are the vast majority of welfare recipients. But now it is  
the women on welfare who are uniting and supporting each other  
in their struggle. We support Chicana Welfare Rights nationally  
and locally in their efforts to repeal the Talmadge Amendment to  
the Social Security Act.

One Reader’s Opinion

Carol Hansford

A “straight” woman is a woman without any feminist  
consciousness. A straight woman is not merely a woman who  
sleeps only with men. Defining a woman as “straight,” if she is  
not homosexual, creates resentment which ultimately can lead  
to alienation from other women.

Some lesbians feel that all women are lesbians whether they  
know or will admit it. All women are not lesbians just as all  
women are not heterosexuals. It is lesbian chauvinism to think  
otherwise. Commitment to other women does exist - strong and  
honest without sexual involvement. It comes from a true, deep  
feeling of women as sisters; it is not dependent on sexual  
encounters.

There seems to be a feeling of “more Feminist than thou” by  
some lesbians in the movement whose actions and attitudes say,  
“If I sleep with a woman, I am more radical, heavy, together than  
a woman who sleeps alone, with men or with women and men.”

An aspect of feminism is that a woman must control her own  
body - all aspects of her body - in the area of sexual activity as  
well as motherhood. Feminism also demands the making of a  
woman's culture through the creation of viable alternatives and  
the denial of any oppression among people: honesty.

Some Feminists recognize lesbianism as a viable alternative,  
although sections of the lesbian movement don't recognize  
heterosexuality as a viable alternative. Heterosexuality is not  
exclusively culturally determined. All women have the option of  
accepting or rejecting it. It is a choice that Feminists make?  
Straight women don’t make that choice. They are locked into  
societal expectations of their sexual behavior, but Feminists  
have stepped away from this and are not bound by such stringent  
social roles.

As long as sexual preference is allowed to create a difference  
among Feminists the divisiveness rampant in this women’s  
movement will remain and be a detriment to real change. Women  
should unite around their politics not their sexual proclivities.  
Let's put our energy into fighting sexism - our common enemy.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 1

Poetry

Our woman-heritage is one of love and power and courage and
beauty. Woman, life-giver, earth-molder, passer-down through
centuries of daughter birth the strength of humanness, corrupted
by man’s myth of evil, sapped by the man-child’s parasite’s
sucking bite, trampled with his rush to die.

In 1945, a huge and gleaming structure, built to soar and dip
and dive and top the clouds in the wake of dreams’ exhaust, was
named for two women, was made pregnant with a device more
horrible than womankind’s worst fears, was made to carry this
device to a small and remote place called Hiroshima, and in a
swift delivery, bore death and destruction. The following poem,
our life-course. It meant to cry for all women, to anger, to stir,
and to unite.

ENOLA Gay
Enola Gay
was a lady,
they say
a sleek, slender
lady
of sensuous way, to feel the void in ourselves
a dark, daring the crush of emptiness.
lady go easy, dear girl,
see your shadow is an open grave.
‘cool that your carbine is a convenience
She bought like a credit card,
all the dreams she about to
appear in a vision.
Sr Une COUN, Ticsccriist vutadh eptestedsts saan

SOME LINES FOR PATTY

that day

without any hubbub, confusion, — so calm this can mean
their eyes devour cities.

She bought
all the dreams
and went on her way,

their tongues drip honeydew
upon the wounds of the poor.

the shapes of sleep are all around us.

a Patty, find me a way out of this labyrinth,
beautifully beautiful this gray tissue punctuated

lady, by the shock of searchlights.

they say you are creating your own myth:

But dreams are a rebirth myth.

a danger when the time comes

and only delay you will vanish into it.
the marching of progress this is your safe-conduct,
as time slips away, your cloak of invisibility.
A sensible lady ~-Janet McReynolds
as Enola Gay
doesn't buy dreams
to fill up the day.
So they took her
and wrapped her
in concrete and gauze,
so nicely removing
the proximal cause,
and the dreams, hopes,
and plans
of Enola Gay
were washed down
the drainpipe
and mixed with red clay.
When they had done
on that horrible day
they put on
a death mask
and hauled her away.
Such is the story
of Enola Gay,
a wonderfully womanly
lady,
they say.
-JEREMY

PICTURE PRESS

melodious wanderings past
the gate

chronicle of

“other children coming/a

“woman circles the block
with her mouth open
she cannot move her right hand
she cannot step

from the curb gracefully

she cannot shut

her mouth she can however
smile with that big mouth/ a
woman remains

a gold shield

her confidence

shines off her like

a steel blade

the blade is

an unknown quantity

she stretches love

to fit & the day goes

ahead of her

she is a language the terms
of which are the terms

of which are the terms fastened
before she rises

I think her out to the finest
turns of her arms

legs & I am a bit

-queer I a

“woman is
a walking fairy-

tale see her

change many colors see her
beat the balls and practice
no discretion see her
absolutely/ the

‘woman oh mama

“the woman oh mama
they said
I didn't say it.
~Jane Creighton

EPITAPH
She died to live she
lived to die she
died inside him where she lived
so long dying
to get out
-Chocolate Waters

“Anonymous has been the
oldest, most persistent writer
in history. It is a widely felt
belief that works signed
anonymous were often the
creation of women. Women,
repressed as they were and
unaccepted as thoughtful and
creative humans were often
ashamed to submit works
with their names or too fearful
of social condemnation. The
repression did not halt the
flow of the emotions and
feelings, only forced them
underground so that works
labeled anonymous are often
our strongest clue to works
“by a woman writ.”

in his pocket
colored scarves. are ynchopatior yt form
nothing trails out because snug. asking
he forgot to patch the holes on women's bodies
but she sits inside the circus wagon nie. -Gitar toler
needle and thread poised on canvas
to stab and in the minds of men
the hearts of bits of cotton for tenderness
cloth

a metronome

silent as a

heartbeat
always

keeping time

to someone else’s

piano playing

~-Anonymous--*

TERRAN WOMAN
I have learned that rocks are clouds in process
that the trees behind you are helping us
hold up our half of the sky—strength in the only way
I understand it

~-Anonymous

The learning traverses within me
I come as witness

In the splinters of wood
your axe shatters seed

You would offer yourself as earth

would hew yourself in mind and roots

You are woman cloning herself to the firmament
Woman sculpting the air with her breasts
Woman shaping woman

Standing between the shadows of my coming and going flesh
in the changing particles of spirit
now here

now in herstory made from the texture of meadow bellies
and the nipples of other mountains

my own shaping appears in the boundary between horizons
pauses to breathe in a momentary centering

I could have done a million things. but love you

I AM A WORLDWIND
and my words will strike like thunder and lightning demolishing the -
male misogynic myths into the rightful place of absurdity and obscurity they deserve. I will laugh at the absurd male and his pompous sense
in the unimportance of life. His busy consuming need to consume
himself and the world around him. He will not consume me or the
woman I love. We will fight him smashing out at his idiocy, we will
tear his ideology limb from limb. We will take his vision and make it
into fragile orbs that shatter into powder blue clouds upon the anvil of
his head. LAUGH WOMAN! For this is a pitiless creature upon whom,
you need bestow nothing but hatred for the cruelty his race has sub-
jected your ancient mother family to... OP —

DANCE WOMAN! We dance to celebrate our declaration of War, our
separation from the fatherland, from the father almighty, from your
father/brother/husband. Our determination to destroy through crea-
tion their stupidity. DANCE because we are building our own fortress
to forestall their attempts at colonization, their imperial demands for
our minds, our bodies, our being. Seize your body and feel the strength
coursing through your veins, let your laughter ring out into the hills
bouncing off and coming back to you sevenfold. Seize your mind and
point it in the direction that benefits you and the woman you love.

--Maureen Mrizek

* “Woman” is woman without man. Sounds like “wome
Wow?

-—Jan McLaughlin

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 4

WOMAN ALIVE!  
Women Recorded

Elissa Meyer

WOMAN ALIVE! above all  
else celebrates the diversity of  
women. The program does not  
pass judgment, nor offer an  
evaluation of lifestyles or  
struggles. Each segment of-  
fers insight into the unique  
circumstances of each wo-  
man's life. The camera probes  
into the interpersonal difficul-  
ties of Pat and Charles  
Sackrey who are “working  
hard on being together.” And  
it records the concerns of  
Iowan women encountering  
disrespect and discrimination  
on their jobs. The stereotype of  
“women’s movement as  
white middle class” is  
beautifully denounced as  
black women of the National  
Black Feminist Organization  
discuss the peculiarities of  
their dual oppression, and  
finally as Crystal Lee’s story  
of union organizing unfolds  
for us. Crystal Lee Jordan of  
Roanoke Rapids, North Caro-  
lina does not talk with her  

Pat Sackrey talks with  
Charles. She goes each day to  
picket lines and union rallies,  
whereas Pat works long hours  
at the Everywoman’s Center in  
Massachusetts.

And like the women’s  
movement itself, the program  
sets off a melody singing  
inside you; the refrain echoes  
in your mind and you want to  
hear more. I felt like I wanted  
to put every woman in front of  
a camera to tell her story, to  
elaborate on her struggles.  
Because I share the profound  
belief that in respecting, and  
indeed celebrating, the u-  
niqueness and strength of a  
woman’s character, regard-  
less of her particular situa-  
tion, women will break the  
bondage of stereotype, self-  
denigration and roles for  
good. As Milissa Manchester  
sings at the end of the  
program, “Oh heaven how  
you’ve changed for me now...  
the miracle is in my soul....”

WOMAN ALIVE! producer Joan Shigekawa enjoys a light moment with textile union organizer Crystal Lee  
Jordan -- the subject of a film profile in the one-hour special produced by KERA-TV Dallas/Fort Worth in  
collaboration with Ms. magazine. It was broadcast June 19 at 8:00 p.m. on Channel 6.

Photo courtesy of PBS

husband in the same way that  

Comment

It was remarkably appro-  
priate to have Maya Angelou  
follow WOMAN ALIVE! Maya  
says of Aesuit “I, a woman;  
I, a black; I, a human.” It is  
society which attaches labels  
and stereotypes to these facts  
because then society need not  
deal with the human element  
in all of us. She goes on to  
comment on the validity of  
struggles for liberation. Even  
though she differentiates be-  
tween white women’s issues  
and black women’s issues she  
conveys a respect, more than  
that, a necessity, for each  
group to deal with its own  
oppression. Similarly, as to  
race relations, Ms. Angelou  
regards Watergate as the most  
important matter for white  
folks because it affords us the  
opportunity to confront our  
own morality and integrity, to  
clean up our own backyard.

One of her most moving  
statements was in answer to  

CONFERENCE ON SEXUAL  
CAN YOU GIVE TWO HOURS TO DECIDE THE  
FUTURE OF FEMINISM IN DENVER?

THE WOMAN’S VOICE BOOKSTORE IS  
FOLDING.

WOMEN IN TRANSITION IS SHAKY.

THE DENVER SUSTAINING FUND WILL BE  
VOTING TO FUND BMR.

WE NEED TO SHOW A MASS  
BASE OF SUPPORT FROM DENVER WOMEN.

JULY 10 7:00 P.M. 1st MENNONITE CHURCH

430 WEST 9th STREET

CALL BMR FOR INFORMATION 322-2010  
MARK YOUR CALENDAR!  
that she would teach her to  

laugh...a lot; and to be  
serious. And she would tell  
the child that, “You might  
encounter many defeats, but  
you are never defeated.” Love  
life!

Maya Angelou, herself a  
tribute to life, courage and  
joy, left all of us, as viewers,  

BE AT THE MEETING TO SHOW SUPPORT!!

Maya Angelou, singer, actress, playwright and political activist,  

Spring 1974 with a similar message. We converse with Bill Moyers on a BILL MOYERS’ JOURNAL repeat,  
PROCESSES of CHANGE need not cross the boundaries Wednesday June 19 at 9:00 p.m. on Channel 6.  
Photo by Jill Krement  

Summer 1974  
a feminist quarterly  

Fall 1974  
Photo Courtesy of Channel 6  

The SELFHOOD of WOMEN —  
so much more by  

accepting, and enjoying our  
differences, and not trying to  

WOMEN and SPIRITUALITY  
change others. She says of  
America, “What's so great  
about being a melting pot?  
Look at the good it's  

produced.”

A. A. VILLAGE STRIPPER  

1403 SO. BROADWAY  
DENVER, COLORADO 80210  
(303) 744-9911  

Enclose a check or money order to:  
Quest: a feminist quarterly  
P.O. Box 8843  

Washington, D.C. 20003  

$7.00/year (4 issues) individuals  
$12.00/year institutions  

$8.00/year Canada and Mexico  
$10.00/year overseas  

$2.00/sample copy  

FURNITURE STRIPPING & ANTIQUES  
PAINT AND VARNISH  
REMOVED FROM WOOD  

and METAL  

political organizing and  

RICHARD S. HERMAN  

ideological exchange

Talmadge

- From Page 1

last three years trying to save
4 million dollars of welfare
grants reflects the inadequacy
and incompetency of such a
program. However, Congress
still chose to fund it again.
WIN program became the
vehicle to implement the
Talmadge Amendment.

In November of 1971, Nixon
vetoed a child care bill which
proposed free child care
centers to families earning

less than $4,000.00 a year. 

These child care centers
would have been communi-
ty-administered, yet his rejec-
tion was based on the
reasoning that child care
centers were a threat to the
most fundamental institution
in this country - the family!

The child care centers,
Nixon reasoned, would offer
more opportunity for women
to leave the family and go to
work. It is ironic that a year
later, the poor welfare Chica-
na is mandated (by the
Talmadge Amendment) to
leave her home to look for
so-called “employment” or
“training” and to leave her
children at child care centers.
Where was Nixon’s veto this
time around?

Mothers Cannot Choose

It should be emphasized
that the welfare mother is
mandated to leave her child-
ren at a child care center if
there is one available. If she
rejects the child care center
because of its location, its

facilities, its program, or its
personnel, she will be “dere-
gistered”--rendered ineligible
for welfare. Thus, if the center
is not bilingual, bicultural and
totally negates the family life
style as well as usurping the
authority of the parent, the
Chicana on welfare has no
right to accept or reject
programs concerning the wel-
fare and education of her
children. Presently, the num-
ber and the quality of available
child care centers is insuffi-
cient to meet the working
mothers’ needs, especially the
poor working mother.

If the Chicana is forced to
put her children into educa-
tional centers which have
traditionally failed her people,
her children may become
drop-outs at a much earlier
age. The child’s life can be
surrounded by not only racist,
monolingual, monocultural
institutions, but the child can
also come to contend with the
stigma and harassment en-
countered from the educa-
tional institutions towards
people on welfare. Unfortu-
nately, the taxpayer accuses
the child as the source of his
financial burden. Welfare
mothers want to prevent this
victimization of their children.

Amendment

—Jay Schatz
CWRL Challenges Welfare

The Chicana Welfare Rights
organization challenges the
Talmadge Amendment to real-
ly deal with the problems of
welfare. In doing so, it hopes
to work for a program which
will provide good training and
valuable jobs. In addition, it is
striving to have the work and

the rights of poor women

recognized.

In general, minimum wage
laws are applicable to all
industries and occupations
except domestic service and
farm workers. The Talmadge
Amendment creates a new ca-
tegory of workers who are also

exempt from the minimum

wage law - the welfare recipi-
ent worker. In order to ensure
that people really get off, or
stay off welfare, the standard
minimum wage should in-
clude all working people. In
addition, a welfare recipient
should receive the same
salary as other workers doing
the same job.

Chicana Welfare Rights
requires all training programs
to include a community labor
council to help identify the
needs of the labor market in
order to prevent wasting time
in being trained for obsolete
jobs with no future. Jobs
should be open for individual
advancement in that field. The
quality of training should be
sufficient and adequate rather
than provide instant short-
lived panaceas.

Traditionally, civil service

jobs have used tests as a
selection process in hiring.
These tests do not necessarily
reflect the kind of jobs applied
for. Chicana Welfare Rights
recommends that training
include preparation for civil
service jobs. It feels civil
service test requirements
should be withdrawn, or
substituted through partici-
pation in the training pro-
gram.

In the case of college
scholarships or other valuable
training, equal recruitment
should exist for both men and
women. According to the
Talmadge Amendment,
unemployed fathers and youths
sixteen years and older were
identified as priority targets in
the WIN training program.
CWR believes that this atti-
tude ignores the fact that the
majority of adults on welfare
are women as heads of
household. These women
should have equal opportunity
in training and for employ-
ment.

A widow of 56 years, having
raised five children who are
now over the age of 18 years,
cannot receive social security
benefits. Her children are too
old for aid to dependent
children, and she is too young
for the old age plan (for people
62 years and over). As far as
her employability is con-
cerned, there is little demand
for a woman her age in the
labor market. Her employable
status is greatly reduced
because housework and
motherhood are not counted
as work experience.

Three Point Program

CWR has identified a three
point program insuring the

From Page 4

Cable TV Women

can be improved; in another
sense people making produc-
tions for profit can share some of
their resources to help
proliferate skills and access. A
balance can be reached if people
shared similar attitudes regard-
ing the need for true alter-
natives. Unfortunately, the taste
for money and technical
chauvinism have pushed some
of the public access people
beyond caring whether they

create alternatives or not. Just

as creating a profitable business
out of Cable television has
become the only concern of
companies rather than offering
relevant programming as an
alternative to Broadcast and
rather than promoting use of the
media by the public to create
their own TV.

Gladly enough Community
Television is gaining strength. In
places around the country at-
titudes are changing and oppor-
tunities for women look more
promising. At Input in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the staff
includes skilled and dynamic
women. They stress training
rather than production and
maintain a library of community
produced tapes. In another part
of the country, a group of women
have leased an entire channel of
Cable and are producing video
exclusively for, about and with
women. Minority women are ac-
tive producers of “survival”

rights of poor women on
welfare. First, recognition of
woman's work in the home as
a mother and as a housekeep-
er must be provided through
Social Security benefits. Se-
cond, women on welfare
should be given the right to
choose whether to work in the
home, or out of the home.
Third, free, 16-hour commun-
ity controlled child-care cen-
ters must be provided for
families earning less than
$4,000.00 a year.

It is an injustice when the
Equal Rights Amendment,
which demands equal pay for
equal work, does not extend
to the mother whose work is
not considered part of the
labor force. Society forgets
that she is responsible for the
maintenance of the labor
force. The ERA is a victory
only for the “recognized and
organized” employed. The
“unrecognized” worker - the
mother - has still to fight for
her equal rights in order to
secure payment for her job,
and to secure social security
benefits for her service.

The middle class commun-
ity as well as the low-income
community must be educated.
They must be made aware of
the fact that the welfare
recipients are not the only
victims of the educational and
economic system. The great-
est criminals - who hurt the
taxpayer are the corporations
which can legally avoid paying
taxes and the landowners
such as Talmadge of Georgia,
who are subsidized not to use
their land. It is not the people
struggling for food, shelter
and a decent job.

VIVA LA CAUSA DE LOS
PROBRES

tapes in the Anacostia
neighborhood of Washington,
D.C. through a video group
called Project Accountability.
They spread helpful information
about nutrition, health care,
grocery shopping, etc., to their
neighbors by showing these
tapes in laundromats, hospital
waiting rooms and on street cor-
ners. Project Accountability
even produced a tape about
trash problems in a housing pro-
ject, and they gave a special
showing for City Council
members, as they were too
“occupied” to visit the
neighborhood themselves.

And here in Denver, the
Denver Community Video
Center is actively promoting
Community television. Through
various special projects, an In-
dividual’s Workshop program,
and a newly emerging Social Ac-
tion Television (SATV) Task
Force, the Video Center is
among those groups who
believe that people have a right
to participate in and have access
to the organs of communications
in this country. And since televi-
sion is by far the most powerful
media of this era, learning video
skills is as vital to all of us as
learning to read.

12°

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 1

Nurture

Barbara Hume

Cross-cultural studies indicate that, almost universally, mother and child are close together the first few days after delivery. The father may or may not be included in this togetherness. The degree to which the father is involved usually reflects his later role in child-rearing. Some people suggest that it is the early contact of father and child which triggers his increased participation in parenting. The system of separation of mother and child, at its extreme in high risk and premature nurseries, is unique to our society.

While studies on other animals clearly show a critical period during which separation of mother and child leads to severe problems or rejection of the child, there has been a reluctance to extend these ideas to the human animal. Now, however, evidence indicates that human beings have their own species-specific routine pattern of behavior which crosses cultural lines. Filmed observations show a routine pattern beginning with fingertip touching of the infant's extremities and proceeding to massaging and palm contact with the trunk. Mothers of premature infants follow a similar sequence if allowed to touch their infants, though at a slower rate. At least some researchers feel that eye-to-eye contact is also crucial as one innate releaser of maternal caretaking patterns. Yet other studies indicate that mothers separated for 20 days have more trouble bottle feeding than mothers who have early contact with their infants. Cuddling was diminished for these late contact mothers as was eye-to-eye contact. This is very important for the child’s subsequent development since it has been shown that “...early maternal attentiveness facilitates later exploratory behavior in infants.” (Klaus and Kennell, p. 1025)

“Observations in human mothers suggest that affectional bonds are forming before delivery, but that they are fragile and may be easily altered in the first days of life. A preliminary inspection of fragments of available data suggests that maternal behavior may be altered in some women by a period of separation, just as infant behavior is affected by isolation from the mother.” (Klaus and Kennell p. 1035)

The newborn nursery is a medical fad which became the norm despite limited evidence in its favor. Before we risk a similar mistake with respect to rooming-in, more evidence should be gathered and alternatives explored. Home delivery and maternity hospitals are successful in many countries. A local alternative is the newborn nursery at Colorado General Hospital where parents enter and leave the nursery freely at any time of day or night. Conversely, babies go out to the mother’s room any time, for any length of time. It has been found that adequate handwashing and isolation of diseased mothers and babies is all that is required to provide a safe place for mother and child.

If you are about to deliver a child, consider (1) what you feel your needs are, (2) what facilities are offered in your community, and (3) insist on using the most suitable of these facilities to its maximum. If you plan to breastfeed, a hospital which forbids breastfeeding the first 12 hours, and then brings the child every four hours only, certainly isn’t going to help you develop a good milk supply.

Minority Task Force continued from page 4

other state corrections officers consider their decisions part of natural law.

The men’s prison has a pre-parole program that allows prisoners to live in special housing thirty days before their release. The men have a period of readjustment into community life, attend orientation groups, get their driver's license, and use real money instead of the wooden tokens of the prison.

Now, because of publicity from the Task Force, women prisoners can attend lectures. They cannot get a driver's license, use money, and of course they cannot live (read sleep) in the pre-parole facility. Certain petty rules apply only to women prisoners such as no talking in the T.V. room, no leaving until a show is over, no exchange of food in the dining room, no talking from table to table while eating.

“Say Something Nice”

After the first visit of the Task Force the women prisoners were told by their female warden to “say something nice” about their home away from home. A few rules have been changed since then. Women can now dye their hair, can choose their own seats for meals, and now women can leave the prison in pants suits. The former rule was that no woman could go outside of the prison walls in anything but a dress. Now all women must wear pants, not dresses.

Two women were punished for hugging each other when one heard of her release. Women are subjected to dehumanizing medical exams whenever they return to the facility from the outside. There is no male-female socialization because of the fear that the women might get pregnant.

Women still do not have a work-release program that men have which allows the prisoner to live and work in a city outside of prison. Women prisoners must remain in their prison and do the laundry and sewing for the prison.

KOA Boycott

From Page 3

This agreement will provide for the creation of a women’s and minority advisory council to help locate qualified and qualifiable women and minority employees and to recommend programming for the station in women's and minority affairs. KWGN also agreed to a 10 percent reduction of commercials during children’s programs, and to hire a woman or minority person as an affirmative action director and another as a minority affairs director.

Negotiations with KOA have been handled through the president and vice-president of GE Broadcasting from New York, “because we had communications problems with KOA management,” according to Virginia Woodard, chairwoman of the Media Monitoring Task Force of NOW. “GE is having similar problems all over the country. The owners haven’t been too prudent in their negotiations with the coalition. This would have been a brushfire - easy to put out - but now...”

KOA Talks Breakdown

“The biggest problem has been and is now a breakdown in communication,” continues Ms. Woodard. “The coalition presented an agreement to the station. KOA objected to some things in the agreement, the coalition agreed to change these things and the station then sent back a completely new agreement - things were in it that we had never even discussed before. Can you believe that KOA wanted to pack the proposed Advisory Council with station selected people, effectively making it a rubber stamp for the station instead of giving women and minorities the voice we demand?”

The coalition is willing to participate in further negotiations with the station but has meanwhile ordered bumper stickers. Money seems to be the ultimate negotiator.

On June 20 the vice-president and general manager, the operations manager, and the production manager, all of KOA-TV and all male and non-minority members, were fired from KOA. The coalition has had difficulty working with these station employees due to their alleged racist and sexist attitudes, according to a member of the coalition.

The new general manager seems to be “more reasonable and rational in his thinking and more aware of community needs,” says Ms. Woodard. The coalition is now waiting for negotiations to reopen with the management hopefully to create a working agreement between the two groups.

. heterosexual

13

Energizing the Feminine Principle Today

Linda Fowler

Women form the oldest and largest continually oppressed
group in the family of humankind, their subjugation dating from
the downfall of communal society and the rise of private
property. The oppression of women exists today at all levels of
social, economic, political, and psychological interaction.

At the social and personal
levels, women’s oppression is
manifested through a lack of
personal identity. Women are
recognized, not as individu-
als, but through their men,
i.e., fathers, husbands, or
family. Through discouraged
relationships with other wo-
men, particularly in groups,
women have grown up with
the idea that they did things
with women socially, only
when they could not have the
company of a man. Through
the frequent threat or actuality
of open hostility and physical
aggression, women are kept
“in line.” In the case of
Lesbians, who are sometimes
physically assaulted, this is
primarily because they do not
relate to men physically or
emotionally, and are not
dependent on them either
economically or psychologi-
cally—are not the property of a
man or men. In the case of
women, wife-beating is not at all uncom-
mon. When Women’s Aid (a

society to aid women who
suffer physical abuse from
their men) opened its doors in
England, fifty-four women
and their children appealed for
help the first day of operation.

“The origin of caste (and the
beginning of class) was the
subjugation of the female sex.
The struggle against the basis
of oppression is at a higher
stage of revolution than the
archaic strategy of the present
radical analysis. In a time
when nearly every American
male is economically capable
of possessing a household
slave or a pretty toy, we
consider women to be the
proletariat.” 1

Economically, women are
now and always have been the
most exploited members of
any working class. Women
receive lower pay for equal
work. In fact, U.S. Govern-
ment statistics show that
white women earn less pro-
portionately than black men
(one example of caste within
the system of class). The
housewife, working endless
hours in the home (99 hours
per week, according to a
Chase Manhattan Bank esti-
mate), is the chief source of
unpaid labor in this or any
country in the world. Without
her slave labor, the entire
economic system could col-
lapse. “The rationalization is
usually that women are
inherently altruistic, which
makes about as much sense
as Senator George Murphy’s
remark that Mexicans are
better suited to stoop labor
because they are ‘built low to
the ground.’ ” 2

All men, whether intention-
ally or unintentionally, have
benefited from the social
position of women, just as all
whites have benefited from
the social position of blacks.

Engels saw the middle-
class man’s woman as a
domestic slave, not a middle-
class person. He wrote: “The
first oppression that occurs in
history coincides with the
development of the antagon-
ism between man and woman
in monogamous marriage,
and the first class oppression
coincides with that of the
female sex by the male.” It is
no accident, Engels said, that
the enslavement of the woman
coincides with the rise of
private property; in fact,
woman (her labor and her
product) was (and still is,
psychologically) the most
valuable property that a man
could possess.

Political oppression until
recently has been total. The
right to vote was not granted
until 1920, many years after
the black man had received
this privilege. This fact is
testimony that all women,
regardless of the social
position of their husbands or
families, are members of a
caste which is considered
lower than that of any man,
whether he be black, white,
upper, middle, or lower class.
Even today women hold less
than 1% of elected offices in
the United States.

WOMEN’S IDENTITY

Although certain social and
legal adjustments can be
documented, mass consci-
ousness itself has not
changed accordingly. The
most severe oppression, and
the crux of all others, has
been and continues to be
psychological. Women suffer
extreme identity confusion,
lack confidence in their
abilities, have little sense of
self-worth, and experience
alienation from other women
and from their own feminine
principle.

They are apart from someone
else. Just as blacks live in a
world defined by whites,
women live in a world defined
by males. (The generic term
for human being is “man”;
“woman” means “wife of
man.”) Thus identified and
defined, a woman has little if
any sense of herself as an
individual entity. (We do not
suggest that there are no
women who have escaped this
situation; certainly, all of us
could cite a few obvious
exceptions. But the excep-
tional woman is not the
problem. The problem is the
situation of the vast majority
of women today.)

With little confidence and
almost no sense of self-worth
(impossible without a sense
of “self”) or the worth of other
women, she looks up to and
identifies with men, particu-
larly those to whom she is in
the closest proximity, i.e.,
those of her political lean-
ings, social position, or race.
For example, the black poet-
ess, Nikki Giovanni, was
quoted by the Denver Post
(Feb. 28, 1973), “The first
thing we must do as black
people, as black women, is
get power for black men.” And
Kathleen Cleaver in a San
Francisco Chronicle interview
stated she wanted nothing
more than a private life as
mother and housewife; that
she was only fighting to help
her man out, so he could be a
good father and breadwinner.

This socially conditioned
sense of altruism, coupled
with derogatory attitudes to-
wards women, and especially
towards Feminism, produces
in women a dislike of other
women, and thereby a hatred
of themselves.

THE FEMININE PRINCIPLE
As long as this abject image
of Woman remains intact,
women will have no incentive
to attempt a rediscovery of the
feminine principle. This re-
discovery of and reintegration
with the feminine principle is
the crucial point for both the
society and the individual.
The feminine principle of
life, nurturance, balance, and
harmony is the principle of the
earth itself. And it is this
principle which is being des-
troyed in the individual, in our
interpersonal relationships,
and in the earth which has
given us birth and continues
to give us life. The life-giving
energy manifest in the form of
woman, in the feminine
principle, is being destroyed
through the male principle of
power.

“It is no accident that the
second wave of feminism has
coincided with the interest in
the earth’s ecology. Our
ecology is in an almost
unbelievably perilous state.
Balance has been upset to the
point where all our lives are
threatened. The earth, the
eternally feminine, has been
brutally raped. Man’s desire to
“master” nature has become a
mastery of death-force.

This feminine principle—
that which is maternal,
materialist and peaceful (non-
competitive)—must, for the
survival of us all, be reassert-
ed at all levels of interaction.
It is woman, the biological
female, who can reaffirm this
principle through her own
self-knowledge.

THE POLITICS OF GROWTH

Woman in her present
condition does not know who
she is, through either her
history (almost totally de-
stroyed) or her identity, and
hence, cannot begin to
reaffirm what she is (the
feminine principle). The right
of every entity, indeed the
necessity, is to know who and
what we are. Without this
knowledge, no growth is
possible.

Men and women have
reached a point of combative
interaction at which all move-
ment stops. And with it all
growth. And with that, all life.

Both men and women must
assume responsibilities for
eliminating that combative
interaction—for seeing what
is happening at all levels of
interaction.

Presently, every sphere of
government and influence is
controlled by men. Personal
solutions or exceptional ad-
justment to political problems
are not revolution. The solu-
tion is found in uniting with
other women to assert the
integrity of us all. Conscious-
ness-raising is more than the
awareness of one’s condition;
it is the ability to move.

When a woman is just
beginning to establish her
own identity, to explore
herself as a full person in her
own right, rather than as an
appendage of some “other,”
she is on very shaky ground
personally—unsure of any-
thing. Previous to this point,
she has had some identity
(through men, family), if not
her own. Now, with nothing to
rely on, she is more easily
than ever intimidated.

Passivity has been woman’s
accommodation to oppres-
sion on all levels. Through
years of social conditioning to
be passive, it is now impossi-
ble for her to assert her
identity in association with
the male. She is so condi-
tioned to non-assertiveness in
association with men that she
cannot possibly get it
together to assert something
of which she herself is
unsure.

It makes no difference at
this point what the particular
attitudes of men may be,
either positive and encourag-
ing or negative and discour-
aging. She is so well-condi-
tioned and so insecure that
she cannot function in their
presence.

She does not know her
identity and needs her sisters'
parity and support to discover
it. Working together on
projects and in discussion
groups, women start to see
each other not as competitors
or inferior companions, but as
sisters in a common struggle.
Identity with other women on
all levels is the ideal for the
Feminist seeking equality,
self-realization, and reinte-
gration with her feminine
principle. She attains an
increasing sense of self-worth
in an atmosphere of real
equality in which no party has
the social advantage. This
atmosphere is created in
centers and groupings which
are specifically women’s. We
need places to encounter
ourselves and each other and
places to affirm our culture.

The feminine principle must
be reaffirmed by us all. It is
woman who is in touch with
this principle. She must have
a conscious awareness of
this, a firmly established
sense of personal being and
personal worth, a sense of her
own entity—she must know
who she is—before she can
meaningfully contribute to an
evolving society; before she
can effect social change. The
“feminist’s withdrawal as far as
possible from the source of
her oppression can in no way
be construed as a political
cop-out. On the contrary, it is
at this point that the conflu-
ence of the personal/political
(articulated but not sufficient-
ly explored by feminists as a
whole) attains the dimension
of imperative reality, . . .” 3

Liberation is not handed

More on Page 14

4 Announcements ee Big Mama Rag Vol. 3 No. 1

Feminine Principle  
continued from page 13

down from above. We must  
fight our own battles without  

paternalistic assistance. We  

must fight our own oppres-  
sion with our own force. This  
requires a sense of our own  
identity. Because we have  
traditionally been identified  
through men and families  
rather than through ourselves,  
we now need a certain degree  
of withdrawal into ourselves. In  
order to realize a deeply  
personal identity. This means  
women functioning together  
with women in order to know  
the essence of Woman. Only  
as women come to know  
themselves will they be able  
to function successfully in  
coalition with men. “Once  
women have shared the  
process of self-discovery and  
the experience of independent  
decision-making, they are  
ready for the great struggle...  
This is not a struggle against  
men... Women cannot be  
free until men are free... The  
solutions for women lie in  
solving far-ranging social  
problems. But this involves  
nothing short of revolutionary  
restructuring of the most  
basic institutions in society.”  

RADICAL FEMINISM

As the radical Feminist  
sees it... “The Feminist  
movement generally is still  
basically a ‘reform’ movement  
directed toward bigger and  
better participation in the  
male privilege through equali-  
ty in his system and thus a  
further denial of her own  
identity in the wages of power  
in the same sexual caste  
system which she claims to  
be the source of her depriva-  
tion.” Until sexual oppres-  
sion is eliminated, oppression  
itself will continue regardless  
of any social, political, or  
economic adjustments. Radi-  
cal Feminists do not want  
equal privileges in the existing  
society, do not want equality  
with what maleness is -- with  
aggression, destruction, and  
death. We want to restructure  
society, changing its existing  
definitions of masculine and  
feminine. We see that we  
must begin creating the new  
person within ourselves. We  
want men and women to reject  
their programmed roles and  
question every single aspect  
of this society, their role in it  
and their behavior.

Male supremacy is not a  
personal problem, but a  
pervasive social force. We will  
begin to solve the problem  
when women organize and  
back each other up. That is  
the immediate goal of Femin-  
ism -- to get women together,  
to make them see each other  
as sisters and allies instead of  
competitors for male favors.  
As yet we have no clear vision  
of the new society. That will  
develop with time. But we do  
know that sexism, like racism,  
is incompatible with human  
dignity.  

FOOTNOTES:

1. Ellen Willis, “A Report on the New  
New Feminism,” Condé Nast Pub.  
2. Roxanne Dunbar, “Female Liber-  
ation as the basis for social revo-  
lution,” NEFP.  
3. J.E. Johnston, “Lesbian Nation,”  
Simon & Schuster, NY, 1973, p. 181.  
4. Heather Dean, “On passing two  
whores and a nun: the sexual caste  
system,” Random, Oct. 66, U. of  
Toronto.  
5. “Lesbian Nation,” p. 186.

announcements

Women in Transition House,  
located at 1895 Lafayette,  
provides housing, job, emo-  
tional and legal help to Denver  
women. To continue providing  
these services WIT House  
needs three kinds of help from  
Denver women and men. We  
need money for insurance and  
mortgage payments, for re-  
pairing and painting the house  
so that it will be a more secure  
and attractive place for transi-  
ent women to come to. We  
need materials like furniture  
and sheets and canned foods  
for our free foods shelf. We  
need energy - physical labor  
put into plumbing and repair  
work. Whatever your skills  
may be, they will be appreci-  
ated. Whatever help you can  
contribute will be an effective,  
constructive way to help a  
sister right now.

WIT HOUSE NEEDS  
WORKERS! Space open at  
Women in Transition for  

women who want a place to  
live -- $75.00 per month per  
room. Women to stay in the  
house and be a part of the  
women’s community. You  
may be as much or as little a  
part of the project as you  
choose. WIT also needs  
people to staff the office -  
about 3 hours per day -- and  
food and mattresses and  
clothes and and and...

GENERAL MEETINGS ARE  
HELD THE FIRST SUNDAY OF  
EACH MONTH AT 10:30 A.M. AT  
THE BIG MAMA RAG OFFICE;  
1724 GAYLORD ST.

Pay 15 cents per copy -  
office, 322-2010

BMR Classifieds

Classified Ads are 8 cents per  
word. We must receive the ad by  
July 24th. Advertise with us!

Roommate needed with man and  
woman 623-6095 maybe $35-40 /  
month.

FOR SALE: Polaroid Automatic  
Camera, M60. Best Offer  
744-3807.

1963 Peugeot chassis - every-  
thing but the motor. Will  
negotiate. Drop a note to 1229  
Clarkson, #2.

Fisher Skis. Need new bindings.  
$35. 321-2225.

2 women & 2 men looking for  
housemate; rent $60; own room;  
share food and household re-  
sponsibilities. 16th & Adams --  
321-8402.

LAVENDER JANE LOVES  
WOMEN. Individual distributors  
needed. Terms: bulk rate $4 per  
record plus postage; payment in  
advance; minimum order ten  
records; no returns; each distri-  
butor is responsible for her own  
sales tax. Write: Women's Music  
Network, Inc., 215 W. 92nd  
Street, 1H, New York, N.Y.  
10025.

“THE WOMEN’S  
SYMPOSIUM: WOMEN and  
the ENVIRONMENT”  
an expo 74 ENVIRONMENTAL  
AD-HOC SYMPOSIUM

- A three-day symposium  
which will explore the con-  
temporary woman in the  
physical and sociological en-  
vironment, through an excit-  
ing series of lectures, work-  
shops and multi-media pre-  
sentations.  
Women and Technology  
(Saturday, August 24)  
- the issues related to the  
development of an envi-  
ronmentally-sound tech-  
nology; provision for par-  
ticipation of women, min-  
orities and the aged in  
technologic decision mak-  
ing.  
Women and Lifestyle  
Choices (Sunday, August  
25)  
- the issues related to the  
expansion of woman’s  
traditional role to include  
her creative self and her  
role as nurturer of the total  
environment throughout  
her life-span  
Women and Consumerism  
(Monday, August 26)  
- the issues related to a  
constantly growing econ-  
omy and accelerating con-  
sumption; women as pri-  
mary purchasing agents  
- Located at Spokane’s Goh-  
zaga University, within walk-  
ing distance of Expo 74  
World’s Fair site  
- A limited amount of  
low-cost dorm housing avail-  
able to both single women  
and families  
For more information in  
program, housing, participa-  
tion fees, and registration  
write to:  
The Women’s Symposium  
c/o Viki Sonntag  
W. 5415 Princeton Pl.  
Spokane, Washington 99205  
(509)-838-1633

sell for 25 cents call BMR

BIG MAMA RAG announces a  
Feminist poetry contest! To  
enter, send us a typed or  
printed copy of your poem,  
together with $1 entry fee per  
poem. Final deadline: Sep-  
tember 15, 1974. We will  
feature the winning entry in  
our October issue. The winner  
will receive a $10.00 prize.

The Abortion Referral and  
Counseling Service provides  
individual counseling and  
help with all aspects of  
problem pregnancy and birth  
control. It is located at 1400  
Lafayette in the Unitarian  
Church and is open on  
Mondays through Fridays from  
9:30 to 5:00. The phone is  
255-2009. All volunteers for  
counseling and referring are  
welcome!

Angela Wilson is not a  
member of the National Black  
Feminist Organization as was  
reported in the April issue of  
Big Mama Rag.

The Denver Chapter of the  
Rocky Mountain Women in  
the Arts is working on a street  
theatre for summer consisting  
of fairytales, poetry, and  
humorous social comment.  
Any woman who is interested  
with or without experience,  
contact Judy at 355-5332.

BMR NEEDS WRITERS!! If  
you are interested in covering  
news stories and/or features  
for BMR, please call the  
office. We also welcome  
manuscripts. Please send  
typed, double-spaced.

the boulder  
Gay Record

P.O. Box 1002  
Boulder 70302

892-1172

The Woman’s Voice Book-  
store is for sale. The present  
owner plans to close the  
bookstore August 1, and  
Denver women may lose the  
only Feminist bookstore in  
town. Faced with this des-  
pairing possibility, Big Mama  
Rag has submitted a proposal  
to the Denver Sustaining  
Fund, which would allow us  
to purchase the bookstore,  
move our office to that  
location, and operate a  
woman’s clearinghouse for  
information and services all  
from the same (new) location.  
Any profits from the book-  
store would be recycled back  
into the Woman's Voice itself,  
the operation of Big Mama  
Rag, and, hopefully into a  
future Denver Women’s Cen-  
ter. We suggest you call the  
DSF to voice your support for  
this proposal (455-4502). Any  
women interested in working  
with The Woman’s Voice when  
and if we are funded, please  
call our office (322-2010) and  
let us know. We need all the  
help we can get!

DO YOU KNOW SOMEBODY  
WHO SHOULD BE READING  
BIG MAMA RAG? Send us her  
name and address (marked  
“Gift Subscription”) and we  
will send her a three-month  
gift subscription ABSOLUTE-  
LY FREE!

BIG MAMA RAG  
ANNOUNCES A FEMINIST  
SPEAKERS BUREAU

BMR has contact with Denver  
Feminists who are willing and  
able to speak to groups on the  
following subjects: Radical  
Feminist Theory, Women's  
Poetry, Lesbian Feminism,  
Women’s Psychology, Wo-  
men’s Journalism, Women,  
Children and the Family. We  
can also contact other women  
who may be willing to speak  
on other subjects. Please call  
us if your group needs a  
speaker. The fee is negotiable  
and will go to support Big  
Mama Rag.

YOU DIDN’T SEND  
THE PICTURES!!!

eA smstA nid

Chicana Welfare Rights

From Page 1

the separation of children
from their families “especially
in the Chicano community.
They are reacting to their own
incompetence and using the
Chicana mother as their
scapegoat,” she continues.
Since the Chicana Welfare
Rights has been using space
temporarily in the Legal Aid
office at 820 Santa Fe, 55
cases have come to the
welfare rights group from
parents who want to institute
legal proceedings to have
their court-separated children
returned to their custody.
Chicano Culture Ignored
Patricia Estrada says that

much which has been written
about the child abuser is
misused, misinterpreted and
misdirected to the Chicana
mother. “No research has ever
been done on Chicano culture
in the areas of child abuse.
Black and Anglo women who
were known abusers were the
groups studied that furnished
profiles for Dr. Henry Kemp’s
book The Battered Child
Syndrome that is used by
hospitals to recognize a child
abuser.

“In the Chicano culture it is
normal for the young Chicana
to help raise her mother's
family. But this past experi-
ence of a Chicana mother who
takes her child to the hospital
for treatment cites her as a
potential child abuser accord-
ing to the prevailing accepted
studies,” she continues.

The separation of a child
from its family, especially if it
is prolonged or repeated
during the child’s first three
years, can have damaging
far-reaching effects according
to John Bowlby, an English
psychiatrist, in his book
Attachment and Loss, Vol. II,
Separation. The child's feeling
of detachment may last an
entire lifetime stunting “the
child's personality, outlook on
life, ability to trust, to love
and eventual independence.”

William Byler, executive
director of the Association on
American Indian Affairs, test-
ified that 25 to 35 percent of
all Indian children are placed
in foster or adoptive homes or
institutions. He said that
social workers who are ignor-
ant of Indian customs “fre-
quently discover neglect or
abandonment where none
exists.”

Estrada Lifestyle

Patricia Estrada came to
Colorado from California
where she worked for seven
years with the problems of
welfare and their effects on
people. She receives welfare,
has one daughter with her in
Denver and two other daugh-
ters and three grandchildren
in California. She is personal-
ly challenging being forced to
go into WIN since she is busy
working with Chicana Welfare
Rights. “I have a job. I’m just
not getting paid for it. I did this
same thing when I was on
welfare in California and was
considered a Case Aid and got
paid for it. I helped to get a
group off the ground to fight
WIN. Then I decided to come
to Colorado, principally to put
my daughter in Escuela
Tlatelolco. The public school
system is so bad. I am also
refusing to accept child care
provided by the Welfare
Department. I am the only one
who can provide child care to
my child because of our
culture. So I should be given
child care money for doing so
this summer.

“The foster homes that
Chicano children are placed in
when they are taken from their
parents do not provide Chica-
no culture. The Welfare
Department says ‘Well, get us
more Chicano foster mothers.’
Bullshit. We all know that we
can’t meet their qualifica-
tions.

“When we win a case in
court by having the child
returned to its home, what
do we really win? There is
always a Stipulation of so
many visits per month by the
visiting nurse and social
worker. That social worker,
their expert Spanish-speaking
Anglo, is the one who causes
the trouble in the first place by
imposing her middle-class
standards on the Chicana.
Having her return to the home
just makes the mother more
defensive.”

Chicana’s Babies Taken

In one case, Ms. Estrada
says, all but two children were
returned to the mother. The
two who were kept had the
lightest skin. “How can she be
a good mother for all of her
children except the two with
the fairest complexions?” She
feels that the prevalence of
birth control and abortion in
the country has caused a
shortage of adoptable child-
ren. “The gringo is no longer
producing the blue-eyed, light
skinned baby. So the Chica-
na’s babies are being taken
away from her.”

“Women who are on wel-
fare,” she continues, “are
forced to go to clinics where
the personnel try to convince
them to use birth control
methods to limit the size of
their families. This is simply
preparing the Chicana for
forced sterilization.

“Living on welfare is a
matter of survival. If there
were any other place to go
other than to welfare, we
would be there. With welfare
money you get only enough to
survive on - enough to exist.
You can't buy soap or toilet
paper with food stamps and
so when your kids are dirty
you are accused of neglecting
them. We need the support of
all women's groups to fight
the Talmadge Amendment. I
would like to see a woman
lawyer working with Chicana
Welfare Rights. We mothers
do this work because it has to
be done. We're doing it for the
agencies that don’t do the job
that they are supposed to be
doing.”

off our backs

the feminist newsjournal

published monthly

Get the stories that most
papers won't print--news and
analysis from a feminist
point of view.

12 issues-$6

Canada-$7

Institutions-$15 sample copy-45¢
off our backs, 1724 20th St. N.W.

Washington, D.C.

20009

rie FROM VANTAGE.

for ONCE in my life

A LESBIAN Novel BY POWERFUL AUTHORS.
Trisd DouglasséSeBe SPART

Cok For TAT THE. BookSTORES in Mib-LY /

CLUW women discuss “Organizing the Unorganized,” in a workshop led

by Irene Chandler.

From Page 7

we are serious.” One thing
she said women would have to
try to do is hold their temper
because sometimes it seems
pretty hopeless. She pointed
out that Third World women
have the most trouble as they
can’t afford babysitters and,
as with the United Farm
Workers boycott, they had to
take their children with them
to the picket lines.

After the guest speakers,
we broke into the following
workshops: (1) Affirmative
Action, (2) Women's Partici-
pation in Their Unions, (3)
Legislative and Political Ac-
tion and (4) Organizing the
Unorganized. A consensus of
the workshops wasn’t given at
the conference but will be
mailed to the participants.

Area Caucuses Planned

Area caucuses were then
held with the largest number
of women being from the
Denver and Boulder area.
Denver voted to have their first
Denver chapter meeting on
Sunday, June 30th at 1 p.m. at
the Oil, Chemical and Atomic
Workers Union Hall on 1636
Champa. Any women inter-
ested should contact Debbie
Singer, PO Box 4274, Denver
80204 or Shirley Jackman,
8441 McDougal St., Denver
80229, for further information.

Although as a group CLUW
did not call themselves
feminists they can be a very
strong arm for the women’s
movement. I left feeling
strength that comes with
being able to experience
women working together.

Photo by Joyce Parker

THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTE AT
THE UNIVERSITY OF
COLORADO, BOULDER, IS
SPONSORING A SEMINAR ON
EDUCATION JULY 29 THRU
AUGUST 10. THEY ARE IN NEED
OF WOMEN PERFORMERS
WHO COULD DONATE THEIR
TIME AND TALENT. ANY
WOMEN INTERESTED SHOULD
CONTACT CHRIS, 843 17TH ST.,
BOULDER.

CU to Offer 2-week
Institute on Women

Who is the American woman?
What is her history? Where is
she now? The opportunity to
explore this new research, to
connect it with contemporary
experience and future possi-
bility, will be available this
summer at the University of
Colorado, Boulder, during a
two-week Institute, July 29
through August 9.

The Institute will make an
intensive examination of the
myths and realities of women
in society. Its basic approach
will be sharing: the sharing of
ideas and information among
academic disciplines and the
sharing of experiences and
insights among students and
teachers. Participants should
find this orientation both
scholarly and congenial. Day
care will be provided for those
participants who bring child-
ren. For further information
write: Bureau of Conferences
and Institutes, Academy 217,
970 Aurora Avenue, University
of Colorado, Boulder, Colora-
do 80302. Or call Carol
Pearson at 443-2211.

We goofed! In our last issue
these women were not credited
for their work: Barbara
Hume for her “Women and
Health” column; Babs Nash
for photography in “Women in
the Arts”; Glenna Booth for
photography of Filo Kennedy.

Sg feta tinge ae 8 oe

38667 10125 Aq cloud

Big Mama Rag ; Big Mama Rag ‘Bulk Rate  
1724 Gaylord Street 1724 Gaylord Street U.S. Postage  
Denver, Colorado 80206 Denver, Colorado 80206 PAID  

Denver, Co.  
Permit no. 1512  

‘SUBSCRIBE!  

Address:  

concerned community communications  

$5.00 one year sub  
$3.00 to Women’s Institutions  
$.40 back copies

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 3, no. 1, July 1974. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/VZNLHR419231921/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark  
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.