It appears that the text you provided consists of symbols and numbers without any coherent words or sentences. Please provide a different segment of text that contains meaningful content for correction.

Medical School

Interview with another psychologist
proved to be favorable for her admission
to Medical School. The report of the
favorable interview has been conveniently
“lost," and the psychologist who inter-

Emory vs. C.U.

In the Fall of 1971, 333 women
and 2,524 men applied for admiss-
ion to C.U. Med. School. The
school accepted 18 women and 117
men. Women made up the 14% min-

ority and men made up the 86%
majority of the 1971 class.

Ms. Emory was one of the 315
women who were not accepted, and
she did not sit back and view her
rejection with apathy. She filed a
Sex Discrimination Suit against the
University of Colorado Medical
School.

The suit came to trial in the Fall
of 1972, Judge Mitchell B. Johns
presiding, with Martin P. Miller
representing Ms. Emory in the suit.

Two months later Judge Johns
had finally reached a decision.

His verdict echoed almost
word for word C.U.’s Defense Stat-
istics and Logic used in the trial.
He admitted that women are under-
represented in Medical Schools,
but said that C.U. Med. School has
a better representation of women
than most schools.

Angela (another B.M.R. reporter)
and I interviewed Ms. Emory follow-
ing the trial. She had several things
to say to us in regard to the trial.

One of the most important things
she pointed out was the use that C.U.
Med. School made of the "Equal
Rejection Theory." The "Equal Rejec-
tion Theory" was used through the
courts for many years; it was used
as a basis for discriminating against

racial minorities. Most courts today
refuse to recognize it as a basis for
racial discrimination.

"Equal Rejection" is based on
separating the number of applicants
into different groups, i.e. black,
white, male, female. C.U. Med.
School separates their applicants in-
to groups of male and female. The
figures they use are the percentage of
applicants accepted from each group.
C.U.'s statistics show that out of
2,524 male applicants, 107 were accep-
ted, a percentage of 4.24 acceptance
of male applicants. Out of 333 female
applicants, 18 were accepted, a per-
centage of 5.4 of the total female
applicants.

When the class make-up is viewed
in this manner, the real class make-
up of 14% women and 86% men is
obscured.

Ms. Emory was also subjected to
interviews at C.U., where questions
were asked about her children's care.
She was asked (about her housekeeper)
"Is she mentally capable of taking care
of your children?" Another woman app-
licant was asked "Who'll be the Chief
Cook and bottle washer if you go to
Medical School?" Ms. Emory wondered
how these questions could possibly
affect their qualifications for entrance
to Medical School.

Ms. Emory was also interviewed by
two psychologists as part of her entrance
requirements. (It is questionable whether
male applicants are submitted to these
interviews.) One hour-long interview
provided C.U. with a negative psychol-
ogical assessment of her potential suc-
cess in Medical School. A second hour

Ms.
appealed to a higher court. The local

courts have bowed to the political pressure
and bigotry which rules the Medical Profess-
ion. A woman of the caliber of Ms. Emory will fight all the
way to the Supreme Court and win.

viewed Ms. Emory is no longer on the
board of admissions.

Although Judge Johns has ruled against

Emory, the case will no doubt be

including C.U. Med. School. A woman

Maureen Trrzef

DENVER WOMEN'S THEATRE is

now one year old. The member-
ship has changed, but some of
the founders are still around.
In our short history we have
done guerrilla theatre, melo-
drama, street theatre, poetry
reading, skits, plays, songs,
and taken classes in improvi-
sation. We learn as we gain
experience. We use drama and
song as improved kinds of
speech to reflect our politi-
cal beliefs as women, working
hard for liberation. We want
more dedicated women to join
us, to use all available re-
sources to the fullest. Call
Bet at 388-8497 or Alice at
238-4108, or come to a meeting
Wednesdays, 7:30 pm at 336
Bannock.

WRITE WOMEN BACK

"From the dawn of civil-
ization women have made
important contributions
to society. And, under

the heel of oppression,

women have struggled for
freedom. In asserting
the right of women, we
reclaim our heritage...
Write women back into
history."

A proud and angry statement
that makes you want to run out
and discover your past, isn't
it? It is from a series of
posters of famous women in his-
tory that the Young Socialist
Alliance is producing. I have
put up in my study the intro-
ductory statement and four of
the posters, for inspiration.

Much as I like this series,
however, I sometimes have
trouble with the second state-
ment. First, it tends to mis-
lead us into thinking of women's
history as always, everywhere
the same: women's history e-
quals oppression. Second, we
have to be careful in looking
for antecedents to our own
struggle. Women's "struggle for
freedom" did not occur as fre-
quently nor in all the places
one might expect.

For example, the history of
17th and early 18th century wo-
men, particularly the Protestant
women of English descent, should
be approached on its own terms.
If it is forced into the 19th
and 20th century categories of
oppression and liberation, we
only confuse ourselves.

Let us look at the 17th and
early 18th century women. What
exactly would oppression have
meant for these colonial women?
Certainly the attitudes ex-
pressed by literate men about
women left something to be de-
sired. Woman, according to a
very long tradition, was a weak
creature. She was, first, men-
tally weak. Overtaking her
brain by excessive reading and
writing might well unhinge her
mind. This was a pity, but, of
course, she couldn't be blamed
for her inferiority. But there
was a second kind of female
weakness which the early colon-
ial men found positively dis-
concerting. Woman was the
daughter of Eve, and she in-
herited her mother's moral weak-
ness. Worse, like Eve, she had
a seductive power that could
pull men down with her. Al-
though this image of woman as
“the dangerous sex" was usually
latent, it occasionally sur-
faced as it did in the Salem
witch trials. It was because
of these weaknesses, finally,
that woman was subordinate,
subordinate to her father in
childhood and later to her hus-
band in marriage.

But what did all this intel-
lectualizing actually mean in
the lives of colonial women?

INTO HISTORY

To begin with, the average co-
lonial woman was not well edu-
cated. Most girls who were
educated at all were taught the
rudiments at home or in the sum-
mer sessions of the public
schools if they existed. Even
in Massachusetts, a colony with
a considerable concern for edu-
cation, only 50% of the women
could sign their own names in
the mid 17th century. But how
significant was this depriva-
tion in a society in which edu-
cation was not necessary for
survival and in which most men
were equally deprived? Lack of
educational opportunities did
not mean to the colonial woman
what it would mean to us.

Under English common law in
which woman was declared civil-
ly dead at marriage, woman's
legal status looks oppressive.
However, in America, the harsh-
ness of English law was modi-
fied by Equity law: if a woman
came into a marriage with con-
siderable property of her own

her father would make out a
contract to protect her right
to this property. The law as
practiced protected her rights
in her husband's property. Di-
vorce was permitted when either
party to a marriage could prove
that the other had neglected a
fundamental duty.

The fact that English law
was modified in the American
colonies is significant. Wo-
men were in short supply in
the early period. Companies
who invested in a colony real-
ized how important the pre-
sence of women was to the cre-
ation of a permanent colony
and made efforts to induce wo-
men into coming to the New
World. The London Co. which
underwrote the Virginia colony
advertised for “Agreeable per-
sons, young and incorrupt...
(who would be) sold with their
own consent to settlers as
wives, the price to be the
cost of their own transporta-
tion." Apparently women
found this offer very attrac-
tive. In 1619 ninety came on
one ship alone. Historians
have speculated that it was in
part this demand for women that
made women's place in colonial
American society much better
than that of their sisters who
remained in the Mother Country.

But even if they had been in
good supply, the work of the
early colonial women, even wo-
men of the wealthier classes,
made them absolutely indispen-
sable. From earliest childhood
when a girl began doing house-
hold and barnyard chores the
female was a useful and pro-
ductive member of her family.
In her early to mid-twenties,
she married and bore on the
average nine to ten children.
Childbearing was hard and the
mother's life expectancy was
7 years less than her husband's.
Two or three of those children
died before they were adults.
Aside from childbearing and
rearing, she was in charge of
the home. It was not the con-
suming home of the 19th century
but the producing home, a small
manufacturing unit which turned
raw materials that the husband
produced—grains, flax, leather,
meat—into usable products.

The woman and her daughter made
all the cloth for the family,
turned the cloth into clothing,
did all the brewing, baking,
and curing of meat. They made
wax and the only form of light-
ing, candles; they made the
family soap out of drippings
and lye, the lye from ashes.
The woman had charge of the fam-
ily garden and of the family
doctoring. It was an extremely
difficult life but through her
work she had the self-respect
and the community respect that

cont. on page 5

—————————————————e—

society denied to her 19th cen-
tury sister, the middle class
lady of leisure.

While the majority of women
did essential, respected work
in the home, there was an in-
teresting minority of women who
worked outside the home. "They
were butchers, silversmiths,
gunsmiths and upholsterers.

They ran mills, tanneries, ship-
yards and every kind of shop,
tavern and boarding house. They
were gatekeepers, jail keepers,
sextons, journalists, printers,
doctoresses, apothecaries, mid-
wives, nurses and teachers."
This comes as a surprise because
we usually think of women’s work
outside the home and in the pro-
fessions coming in the 19th cen-
tury, after a long and bitter
struggle. Apparently, however,
the prejudice against middle
class women working outside

the home, the horror with

which men heard women's de-
mands to be something more

than just wives and mothers,

was an idea that emerged not
early, but late, with the

growth of wealth and the bour-
geois culture of the late 18th
and 19th centuries.

So we come back to the ori-
ginal question, can we call
these conditions under which
colonial women lived, oppres-
sive to women as women? The
evidence of the oppression of
women per se is far from over-
whelming.

But sometimes we do find a
woman who was dissatisfied with
her position as a woman. I
wonder sometimes how Anne
Hutchinson, an early religious
rebel who ran intellectual cir-
cles around the governor of
Massachusetts Bay colony at her
trial, felt about the charge
that headed the list of com-
plaints against her, that she
had inspired other women to be
"rather...a Husband than a
Wife." We have no evidence
that Mistress Hutchinson was
anything but a religious rebel
but we have a little in the
case of another Anne. Anne

Bradstreet came to the American
colonies in 1630 as the bride
of an early governor of Massa-
chusetts. She was a poet, one
of the earliest in the English
colonies. Her poems run the
gamut from long philosophical
ones like "The Flesh and the
Spirit" to love poems written
to her "dear and loving hus-
band."
If ever two were one,
then surely we.
If ever man were loved
by wife, then thee...
But as happy as Anne was with
her marriage, she occasionally
spoke out against a society
that refused to take her intel-
lectual work seriously.
I am obnoxious to
each carping tongue
Who says my hand a
needle better fits,
A poet's pen all scorn
I should thus wrong,
For such despite they cast
on female wit:
If what I do prove well,
it won't advance,
They'll say it's stol'n,
or else it was by chance.
Despite the two Annes how-
ever, I think the evidence sug-
gests that given the frontier
conditions of the early colon-
ies in which life was equally
hard for both men and women,
and where women's work was as
vital and as respected as that
of the ordinary man's, great
debates about the essential e-
quality or inferiority of women
probably seemed to most people,
men and women alike, somewhat
irrelevant. A movement of op-
pressed women awaited a revolu-
tionary ideology of equality
and, at least as important, the
change of status forced on women
by the new industrial society
of the 19th century.

ee

No. There is not as much writ-
ten about early colonial women
as there is about later women,
Elizabeth Dexter's Colonial Wo-
men of Affairs is the only book
about colonial women's work
outside the home. John Demos
has written a very good little
book on the colonial family, The
Little Commonwealth. Root of
Bitterness, a new collection of
documents edited by Nancy Cott,
has a couple of court trans-
criptions, Anne Hutchinson's
and a woman who was accused
of witchcraft. There are bio-
graphies of Anne Hutchinson a-
round including one by a man
who attributed her rebellion to
menopause! Perry Miller's The
American Puritans contains sev-
eral of Anne Bradstreet's poems
and in yellowed notes from col-
lege I have listed a book by
J.H. Ellis, The Work of Anne
Bradstreet, if you really want
to get into it.

A friend who read the column
last time said she was compiling
a women's history bibliography
from the books I mention. She
suggested others do the same.
Other suggestions or ideas?
Call or write me, Susan Jones,
1653 Jackson St., Denver,
321-3597 «

————————————————— ae

Poste te te he tie Oe a Oe On
ho tosge-sbe the she eGo aie ace aoe she the the aie ee eho aoe ae ee aie

RIP BOOKSTORE
737 E. 17th Ave.

LARGE WOMENS SECTION

ALSO BOOKS ON GAY LIBERATION,
CHINA, CUBA, VIETNAM, MARXISM,
ANARCHISM, IMPERIALISM,

ALL BOOKS 20% OFF AT
ALL TIMES
Monday (2-6)
Tuesday - Saturday (12-6)

please,

don't turn away
from me

the next time
you look

this life space
may be

empty.

can you really tell
if the sunset woman
there on the wall

is running toward you
or chasing the sunset
chances are she's
not even real

is the sunset
then,

nor
but

the
you

next time
look

she may be
asleep in your bed

in fact,
she may

want you
like I do.

N

The Mountain States Women's Abortion Coalition (MSWAC) held a "Crimes Against Women Tribunal" on Saturday, November 11, at the CU Denver Center Auditorium. The purpose of the event was to present personal testimony of women who have had difficult experiences regarding abortions, birth control information, rape, welfare and health departments, and all areas of female oppression. Another purpose of the Tribunal was to publicly demonstrate that incidents of women's oppression are not isolated—that many, many women have experiences of this kind.

These are some of the comments made by participants:

"In Utah a person cannot get contraceptive help if she is under 18 without parental consent. I got pregnant when I was 16. My parents are middle-class Catholics and I'd always been taught that abortion was murder. They sent me to a priest for advice. Apparently when your mother is the president of the Parish's Catholic Women's Club, abortion is OK. He suggested that I get an abortion."

A psychiatric nurse pointed out that "repeal of all abortion laws would be great, but then there would be problems with Denver's medical community, which is very conservative and would probably stop doing abortions altogether if there were no laws to protect them."

The Chairwoman stressed the need to ask for "more than we hope to get."

Attorney Sandy Nemser discussed prostitution as a class issue based on the distinction between call girls and whores. Referring to the then upcoming election, Nemser quoted Gloria Steinem: "If McGovern got pregnant, he'd come to some sort of decision about what to do about it. If Nixon got pregnant, he'd go ahead and get an abortion, deny it, and swear he was a virgin."

The Chairwoman announced that folksinger Judy Collins had planned to testify at the Tribunal but was unable to attend at the last minute. Collins made the point that she did not want to sing, but just to say how she felt.

Pat Schroeder, at that time campaigning for Congress from the First Congressional District, spoke openly about a woman's right to control her own body. She pointed out that Congress has given priority to heart and cancer research, but that birth control and reproductive research have not been as important to Congress. She then pointed out that only 12 out of 435 members of Congress are women.

A young woman from Fort Worth, Texas, said that she had made the decision not to have children and that as a heterosexual saw her choices as "(1) Taking a pill a day for thirty years, (2) having a series of abortions, or (3) getting a tubal ligation." She tried to get a tubal ligation, but "no doctor in the phone book of Fort Worth would give me one because they didn't think I needed one."

The Chairwoman introduced a gay woman from Boulder as "wanting to speak to express solidarity with us and our problems," to which the speaker replied, "Solidarity is not the question, because we're all women." She went on to discuss the health dangers of contraceptive pills and to offer some suggestions in dealing with rapists.

A female lawyer from Legal Aid remarked, "What I've learned (in working at Legal Aid) is that women are victims and see themselves as victims, especially poor women."

An attorney from the National Lawyers' Guild said: "Abortion really is a class problem because it was never a problem with a rich woman... you could always go to San Juan." He went on to quote Tolstoy: "'The rich will do anything for the poor, except get off their backs.' The same goes for men and women."

and let me skip all up and down your face
Taste me in your mouth
and slip your tongue right through me
So I can burst in half
and warm you through and through
Press me in your hands and crush me
So I can slide between your fingers
and trickle down your elbows
Hold me now and gently
Touch me now and gently I'll be up and gone
to find the sun that calls me
Now this raindrop passing through

LIBERATION BEGINS

One evening in Venice, California a couple of years ago a friend and I, in a fit of bourgeois debauchery, sat drinking Scotch and water over a hand of rummy. I was keeping up a patter of light conversation to hide the fact that I was losing the game. The light conversation being the women's movement. My friend was basically a cynic and I was into the revolution: down with the ruling class (the rich) and worry about petty details like the alleged oppression of women later. Not wanting to be accused of turning on my own people I always gave a polite interest to the rising fury of women, but frankly I felt that it was an unnecessary factionalization of the radical movement (whatever that was). Actually what was happening was that I was getting my political analysis from the circle of male politicos, well-read and articulate, that made up many of my close friends at that time.

So anyhow, over the Scotch, Joyce and I sat talking. "You know," sez I, being just as cute as hell, “some of my best friends are men." We kicked that around for a while. We came to the conclusion that even worse than that (and, it's true) is that few of my best friends at that time were women. I began to consider that maybe it wasn't some kind of accident that most of the women I knew were as boring as hell: never activating anything on their own, but existed only in their relationship to some guy somewhere, like my boyfriend this or that. It is pretty hard to gain valuable companionship from a person who ain't even there. Many things, thoughts that had been laying dormant in the back of my mind came into being that evening. Mostly they concerned my own identity: not exactly who I was, but definitely who I was not.

I was in love with James Dean

Through the course of our conversation that night we discovered that we had never seriously thought of ourselves as women. Our heroes were male. I was in love with James Dean—in fact, I adored James Dean—I idolized him. That passion, that heaviness of misunderstood youth, that sensitivity suppressed and manifesting in violence. He seemed so real. In a word, I wanted to be James Dean. And it had never occurred to me until this drunken evening that I could never be him, not even in a hundred years of affected heaviness. No, cruel world, I would have to be James Dean's woman. I would have to be patient with that passion. I would have to be understanding of his confusion. I would have to be tolerant of his self-exploration. Oh shit, a self-image torn from me. For my friend and I could suddenly see that all the admirable traits that we so loved in our heroes were reserved for males and for us was the role of the woman behind the man.

Valour, bravery, adventure, commitment to an ideal, the hungry intellect, the bursting to explore the world around us: in our society these attributes are denied or condoned in women. With the most outrageous blatancy and with every subtlety the role of contented mother is enforced in our psyches. And the goal of life, the final (ABSOLUTELY FINAL) glory to our beings is to be chosen by the best man we can get (of course, as you grow past youthful beauty you must lower your expectations somewhat so as not to be left unchosen). Our beings, after we have left our father’s house, are defined by the man who has chosen us. And how proud we can be to be picked by one of those fine noble men, the man with a social conscience, the man with high standing in the community, the liberal-minded man who is proud of his wife, who wants her to put forth her ideas, in the PTA and in Democratic Party Women's luncheons. How lucky we can consider ourselves at being absolved of the responsibility of having to define ourselves, of having to activate our own life—for we will simply be judged by whom we have married.

a devastating revelation

Perhaps for some of you reading this it is not much of a revelation. For my friend and I it was devastating. Suddenly there was a limitation put on us—or rather it was not sudden, only we had just become aware of it. We had before obviously allowed ourselves the delusionary luxury of relegating ourselves to the special position of exceptional women. We considered ourselves apart and above that deplorable mass of women with their self-imposed dullness and insipid characters. In our stupid ignorance, we had assumed that each individual female was to blame for her own lack of self-growth.

For we had not understood the dynamics of the culturized, institutionalized, and yet worse, internalized concept of women in this society. A role so linear and confining as motherhood is expected to fulfill our selfhood. It is hardly the stuff a girl child should be expected to dream on. Unfortunately it is not only expected to be the dream stuff of the girl child, but the reality of the grown woman. With the highest sophistication of the capitalist economy women are preyed upon with this artificial picture of femaleness. There can be no mistaking of the image: ever searching for ways to be even more attractive to our mate, like somehow we owe him that for his choosing us. Ever searching for new and better ways of serving our family, unselfishly devoting the rest of our lives to their happiness. In a sense, forgetting your self to serve other selves. And even more disheartening is that there was no alternative to this lifestyle for a woman, only sad excuses.

dictated roles

The role of mother for each and every woman has been dictated to us with the import of religion, in the sense that to try to escape or alter this fate is the same as blasphemy to most people.

We, I, have internalized much of this propaganda about what a woman is. I have internalized it to a point that I very much need the support and understanding of women who are experiencing these same things. Perhaps now we can begin to explore who we CAN be. It will be a long and hard struggle because we are defying a role which is

cont. on page 10

A CONVERSATION WITH DENVER’S

THE FOLLOWING IS A REPORT AND ANALYSIS OF AN INTERVIEW WHICH PAT SCHROEDER, RECENTLY
ELECTED DENVER CONGRESSWOMAN, GRANTED TWO STAFF MEMBERS FROM BIG MAMA RAG, J. BRYSON
AND M. WATERS. 

WE FEEL THAT CRITICIZING THE WOMAN'S IDEAS SERIOUSLY MEANS THAT WE TAKE THAT FOR OURSELVES.

THE WOMEN'S MOVEMENT WILL GROW STRONGER ONLY BY CAREFULLY EXAMINING WHAT WE ARE DOING POLITICALLY.

Pat Schroeder's campaign slogan read, "She wins. We win." But did we, the women who are her constituents, really win? A recent interview with the Denver Congresswoman-elect raises some interesting questions.

For example, when asked where she stood on women's issues, Ms. Schroeder replied, "You know, I don't have any problems with that at all. The whole campaign was still run as a humanist campaign. It seems to me that I'm not pushing for men, I'm not pushing for women. I'm not pushing for children. We're pushing for people, and that's what the whole darn thing's about. . . Everybody wants a fair crack at it without looking at whether they're male, female, black, brown, old, young. . .

Furthermore, in responding to a question dealing with what kinds of specific legislation Ms. Schroeder plans to work for while in Congress, she cited at least seven different concerns without so much as mentioning even one issue which deals directly with the problems of women as women in this country today. (Abortion, child care, job discrimination, etc.)

Listed under "New Directions, '72-'76," the Democratic Platform states, "We are determined to remove barriers that limit citizens because they are black, brown, young, or women; because they never had the chance to gain an education; because there was no possibility of being anything but what they were." Although Ms. Schroeder's stands are certainly in line with this ideal, that is all it is--an ideal. In other words, it is of primary importance at this particular time in history for minority groups and women to identify themselves as such first. Of course we are all working ultimately for human liberation, but if we spread ourselves as thinly as cheap mayonnaise over too many causes, we may end up with only an ineffectual thin coating of liberality.

When approached on this point--that certain groups (particularly women) must work for their own rights first, Schroeder had this to say, "Sure it's important for women to seek an identity and I'm not putting that down at all. But I'm also saying that you can't just do that to the exclusion of everything else."

BMR: "To be successful in politics, you mean?”

SCHROEDER: "I don’t even think — that's it. I just don't believe in any one issue. I'm also concerned about peace. If I had to pick one thing, it would probably be peace--defense spending, Armed Forces, environment. . . Those are equally as important. If I stood up and said that I'm primarily concerned about women's rights, I'd be lying. I'm very concerned about women's rights, but no more so than I'm concerned about peace, environment. . .

THIS ANALYSIS IS A CRITICAL ONE. NO ONE SPEAKS FOR US. IDEAS OF ANOTHER WOMAN IS NOT OPPOSED TO SISTERHOOD.

And I just don't believe in getting hung-up on one issue. I find the world is full of one-issue people. They've got tunnel vision."

This all sounds very convincing, of course. I mean, who would dare say that anything was more important than peace? The fact remains, however, that women have been railroaded by this line of reasoning since the first voices were raised in protest. "Let's get to the most important things first and then we'll work on your problems," say the liberal male politicians and others. That's just another side-stepping tactic to keep us quiet and in "our places." Naturally, we are all concerned about peace and environment as well as many other current issues, but how can we as women always work effectively for those issues when our very effectiveness is already limited by the fact that we are women.

Bella Abzug, the N.Y. Congresswoman is involved with many contemporary problems, but women's issues are usually a priority. Similarly, Ron Dellums, the black Congressman from California is working for a great number of issues but black concerns are of the utmost importance. That kind of identification is not a display of “tunnel vision" or of “one-issue candidacy." Ms. Abzug, Mr. Dellums, and others know who they are and just what it is they stand for.

When Pat Schroeder was asked how she came to be identified as a liberal congresswoman, she said, "Well, I've never really identified myself as anything. I think so often you end up getting into a psychological briar patch. . . And I've tried never to really identify with anything that way." And responding to a question asking whether she considered herself to be a feminist, Ms. Schroeder replied, "Oh, I've always identified myself as a woman. Let me back up. To some extent I've never really liked, like the Women's Division of the Bar because I've always figured that men and women practice law the same. It's ridiculous. It should be an integrated bar. Theoretically, we all do the same thing. In law school once, they said, ‘Would you teach a course in women's legal rights?' And I said, ‘Well, no one's teaching one in male's legal rights.' What I think they should do is a bigger picture in, let's say, discrimination. Do the whole thing. . . Don't just do women, don't just do blacks, not just Indians. And I think that's the focus you have to keep on. I've never tried to hide the fact that I'm a woman. I think that any kind of sex discrimination is just awful. I'm not one of those women who say, ‘Gee, I've never found that.' Because I certainly found it everywhere I.

went. I fly airplanes. Women

aren't supposed to do that. I went
to Harvard Law School. Women aren't
supposed to do that either. And you
smile and get along and wish you
didn't have to. But you tolerate

it. So I don't say I've never felt
it. I think it's there. But I

still think the whole thing is having
everybody becoming tolerant... of
different living styles, of different
variances in personality. I think
it's a whole thing of human rights.
I'm obviously saying I’m a woman,

but I'm not gonna stand up and say:
"I am for women." Because you then
immediately become a one-issue can-
didate. Or at least the press will
make you a one-issue candidate.

There is, however, a very great
difference between being identified
as a woman and identifying your-
self with women. The essence of
feminism is not simply that we
“want a fair crack at it." It is
more a restructuring of the way
people relate to one another as well
as an identification with the his-
tory and culture of women.

Sex discrimination is not "just
awful." It is an insidious kind of
animal leash which has choked off the
possibilities of capable women every-
where for thousands of years. Teach-
ing a course in women's legal rights
would not make a woman a female
chauvinist. Pat Schroeder herself
has admitted that "the power struc-
ture is totally unthreatened by
us" because "they know we're out-
siders." A woman's legal position
before the law is unique—perhaps
more so than any other group's. Re-
cognizing that men have made the
laws and that those laws benefit
them, it is absurd to pretend that
a course in "male's legal rights"
is necessary to justify the same for
women. That would be like saying
that a course in discrimination
against whites is necessary before
there can be one in discrimination
against blacks!

Years ago individual blacks could
get along in a white world by "smil-
ing and being tolerant," and per-
haps today one woman can get along
in a man's world by the same ques-
tionable methods. There may be per-
sonal success in doing that. Nev-
ertheless, if we as women are to
identify ourselves with all women,
tolerance and subtlety are not al-
ways the answers. (That is not to
say necessarily that yelling and
screaming are either. Obviously
different styles succeed in different
situations.) To answer the question
of discrimination with tolerance,
however, is to be separate and above
other women, who need the voice of
a congresswoman desperately! Pat
Schroeder says that she is "very
concerned with women's rights, but
no more so than with some other is-
sues." It seems to us that it is
much less so. Women do desperately
need the voice of a congresswoman—
a share in her power.

A friend of mine recently made
her own bumper sticker to place
next to Pat Schroeder's slogan, "She
Wins. We win." It read, "She won.
We won.” We'd all like to be able
to say that, too—and mean it.

Pat Schroeder is not a feminist.
At least, not yet.

; Same.

§ scratching trade anyway.

» been discriminated against.
% “I don't take care of those things.
y Talk to my secretary."
¢ doing the same thing.
% relating the suppressor and that's

% what you do and that's not the way
% it should be.

SCHROEDER

SOME FURTHER EXCERPTS FROM BIG MAMA

BIG MAMA RAG: IS THERE ANY SPECIFIC
REASON WHY YOU DECIDED TO RUN FOR
CONGRESS?

PAT SCHROEDER: Well, if you're
going to change Congress, you've
got to change the kinds of people
you send there. And I'm very tired
of young men on power trips. I
think we've suffered greatly from
that kind of government.

BMR: DO YOU THINK THE NEW WOMEN
IN CONGRESS ARE A DIFFERENT KIND OF
PERSON THAN THESE MEN ON EGO TRIPS?
SCHROEDER: Sure. Yvonne Braith-
waite’s father was a janitor.
Barbara Jordan came out of the South.
We certainly were not a wealthy
family by any means. And yet you
go back and see many of them (con-
gressmen) and they've inherited the
They come from the business
structure or political family. Or
they have certain ties, or they’ve
been ego-maniac types that have been
smooth pretty boys that have been
able to work their way up, and back
scratch a lot. And I really don't
see the women doing that. They've
always announced, "This is where
I was. This is where I stand. Take
it or leave it.”

BMR: WHAT KIND OF CONNECTION DOES
THAT HAVE WITH THEIR BEING WOMEN? DO YOU THINK IT HAS ANY?
SCHROEDER: I think a lot of it is
they've been shut out anyway, and
they couldn't get in on the back-
The
power structure is totally un-
threatened by us. (women) They
know we're outsiders.

BMR: DO YOU THINK WOMEN WOULD GO
ON THE SAME TYPES OF TRIPS THAT MEN
HAVE?

SCHROEDER: Oh, sure. Nothing makes
me madder than to encounter a woman
who's made it and says: “I've never
Or:
You know,
She's emulating—

If you're going
to emulate the suppressor, then you
have no right to rise to the top.

BMR: ARE THERE SOME PEOPLE THAT
YOU'VE CONSIDERED MODELS? THAT YOU'VE LOOKED UP TO AND RESPECTED?
SCHROEDER: I think one of the
greatest persons I can think of is
Albert Schweitzer. He could have
stayed in Europe and had a phenomenal
career on the concert circuit... but instead he opted not to give up
music, because it was his love, but
he opted to be a doctor and help
people in Africa.

BMR: IS THERE A WOMAN WHOM YOU
PARTICULARLY ADMIRE?

SCHROEDER: Umm. I really must
say I admire most of all... the
hoards of women who have gone be-
fore us... really bought the line
about being more responsible, more
reasonable and allow their husband,
you know... Incredible the amount
of sacrifice. Anybody who was
able to buy it, and do it was just
almost beyond my comprehension. It's just give give give give give
and no take, thank you, and there
have been incredible amounts of
women like that.

BMR: DO YOU THINK THAT'S ADMIR-
ABLE OR KIND OF STUPID?

SCHROEDER: Well, we're living in a
different time, you know... I
think women have been the givers of
society and I've always admired the
givers more than the takers. And I
think one of the reasons I admire
Albert Schweitzer so much is that he
didn't have to be a giver, he could
have been a taker—because he was a
man and males were expected to be
the takers... People always say
how neat it was for you to run for
Congress and I keep saying it wasn't
nearly so neat of me as it was of my
husband. He could have absolutely
verboten it. He had the power to
shut it off... There was no ques-
tion. If he had demanded a divorce
immediately, every male in the city
would have understood. He has the
power. I don't. I'm on the out-
side asking for it. It's much
easier for me to ask for it than
it is for him to give it up. He has
the power to say: "No. I stay in
Denver with my law practice and my
very secure position." Women have
had to give up for years, and men
haven't, and so I'm always much
more respectful of the one having the
power and giving it up. It's tougher.
He's in the power structure of
Denver. He's giving all that up and
going to Washington where he's total-
ly unknown.

BMR:.. WHY DID HE DO IT?

SCHROEDER: Oh, I don't know. I
just think he's been very sym-
pathetic to the cause all along.
He's been—I shouldn't say radi-
calized—but he's become sensitized
by being in that position. (i.e.,

636 E. 17th Ave.
892-1172

continued from pg. 7

LETTERS - HOME TO, » +), 9 '"(,
)

>

an integral and necessary part

of Amerikana. And in this role lies the oppression of not a De Mama Se -
but a major layer of, I really during the first issue of Xx of aa
And Kor at any concerned Rag, I couldn't put it down until I read the whole thing, Alta told us eS AS ee ee
bureaucracy: with all sorts of Sols to write our own TEN COMMANDMENTS: té .
1. Thou shalt respect woman's labor, with the oppressed masses, 
it is blindness or worse not to

work, traditional and untraditional,
see the role which has been chosen for you to play. Chosen

not because of your inherent qualities or lack of them, but plainly and blatantly because of 
Thou shalt be polite to thy sisters. We have human feelings. 

4. Thou shalt judge any action by this principle: Does it help women?
5. Thou shalt remember thy sisters all over the world, 
sponsored by MSWAC, I was very impressed with it and really enjoyed every bit of it. Hopefully, you

6. Thou shalt fight against real wicked giants, not windmills, 
Dear Mama Rag, 

Dear Ms.,
I picked up a copy of your fine paper at the Abortion Tribunal sponsored—

I am ordering a subscription because I think you've got a good thing going. When I have time I plan on sending something of my own for publication. Please send me the issue right after your very first issue, I think I may have missed it. Thank you, Lisa Kepeyoledl Thanks for your time.

Sincerely yours

Donna's note: If anyone else out there thinks they missed the second issue, don't worry, this is it.

Dear Mama:

A week or so ago I picked up a copy of your newspaper at the MSWAC Abortion Tribunal. I am very impressed with the paper and with my hardworking sisters in Denver. The article on Sex and The Struggle by Carol was very encouraging to me personally.

Is there a possibility of me receiving copies of your paper on a regular basis? There is no organized Women's group here at U.N.C. and seemingly little interest in starting one so I feel the need for the stimulus your paper gives me.

Please let me know about this as soon as you can.

Love—and that's the truth...
Susan Steedman

Dear People,

It's been emphasized that as women we ought to learn how to really communicate and thus cease viewing each other as threats. However, women are one part of the whole. The truth is, people are not communicating with people.

This capitalistic society possesses a unique way of keeping us humans alienated. It's called "competition."

Most women only see other women as competitors because they define themselves in terms of "beauty" (society's conception of what beauty is — blond, 36 bust, etc.), wealth and status.

However, men aren't relating for the same basic reasons. And one can't view another as a potential friend if one is worried about whether the poor dude is outdoing you. "He's fucked more chicks than I. He's sexier. His penis is bigger. He makes 10 grand, I make 8. I've only got a Mustang and he's got a Porsche."

It's really time to stop evaluating our beings in terms of the outside standards of beauty, wealth and status. When we realize our capacity as humans for such forsaken emotions as compassion, love (not sex) and understanding, we can afford to halt competition.

When this is ended we can realize that our sisters and brothers are not mere obstacles on some road to success who we must beat out or get ahead of. Perhaps then we can see each other as humans with emotional needs and finally reach out and embrace each other instead of crushing one another. Relating to women and men will only come after redefining our goals and worths in terms of humanity.

HAWK BIG MAMA!

PAY 15¢ == SELL for 25¢
minimum 10 copies

Available at

the RLP bookstore
737 E. 17th avenue.
Denver Colorado, 80203

Peace,
Deborah fo.

SOME THOUGHTS ON WOMEN AND

mental health for over two years
now. Though I have many criti-
cisms of and disagreements with
frequent practices and attitudes
in the field, I will restrict
this discussion to women—and
how their (our) position in this
society is constantly reinforced
by therapists.

I shall cite a few specific
examples of what I am talking
about.

A behavior modification pro-
gram is designed for a female
patient. Among the expected be-
haviors (for which she will earn
such "privileges" as eating,
smoking cigarettes, going on an
outing) are hair setting, bed-
making and wearing make-up. Is
hair setting truly an indication
of a well-functioning woman?
Perhaps to these therapists. Or
wearing make-up? I do neither
and haven't for years, and con-
sider myself a well-functioning
woman. And what about making
one's bed? That's another thing
I seldom do, and many of my
friends seldom do. Our defini-
tions of sick and healthy, nor-
mal and abnormal behavior, feel-
ings and needs, must be changed.

Another woman, perhaps be-
tween the ages of 17 and 25, en-
ters a hospital in a "post-par-
tum psychotic episode". This is
the label assigned a woman who
becomes depressed immediately
after giving birth. She may
stop eating, stop talking, and
perhaps even reject the child
she has just birthed. Is this
truly sick? Perhaps she is de-
pressed because she suddenly
realized that her schooling will

end, or that her career is over.

MENTAL HEALTH

Or that she is now, for the next
15 years or so, responsible for
another human being. Responsible
for her/his health, both physical
and mental. Perhaps she recog-
nizes that her life is no longer
her own, that she is expected to
dedicate it to another human
being, and pretty much ignore her
own needs and longings. And

what if she doesn't want to do
this? Then she is made to feel
guilty by those around her. Made
to feel she is inadequate as a
woman, as a human being. Women
are not expected to spend their
lives pursuing their own goals.
They are expected to have as
their primary goal—dedication to
another, or two or three (hus-
band, children) human beings. A
woman in post-partum depression
is usually convinced by her ther-
apist, and perhaps her loved
ones (as well as other patients)
that it is "sick" of her to have
become depressed. That

being a mother is the ultimate

experience a woman can have. And
perhaps so, for some women. But
I suspect that if more options
were truly open to us, more and
more women would choose not to
become mothers—ever. I suspect
that were the burden of child-
rearing shifted, either

several other avenues, that the
rate of post-partum psychosis
would decrease.

An older woman, perhaps 55,
enters the hospital in deep de-
pression. Her diagnosis is in-
volutional melancholia. Involu-
tional melancholia is described
as being distinguished from psy-
chotic depressive reaction in that
the depression "is not due
to some life experience". Per-
haps being a woman and growing
old in this society is not con-
sidered enough of a "life exper-
ience" to cause depression. Per-
haps having completed one's posi-
tive role in this society, as sex
object and mother, should not
cause a woman to become depressed.
But if a woman grows up thinking,
as most women in America do, that
her worth, her significance as a
human being, depends on her youth,
beauty and charm (her sexual at-
tractiveness) and her function as
mother, then certainly when she
loses these roles we shouldn't be
surprised that she is depressed.
Nor should we consider her de-
pression a problem. It is a
problem created by the arbitrary
expectations placed on women in
this society—that they devote
their energies to the children
and husband, and that they remain
young. Their depression is valid
and understandable.

And I hope and ache that the
depression changes to anger which
she will direct where it belongs—
not on herself, but on the sys-
tem. And how is such a woman
treated? Few therapists are in
touch with, let alone point out
to such a patient, that it is not
she who is "sick", but the soci-
ety. Few therapists recognize

that it is a sick society that
permits people to feel worthless
at age 50, or thinks it healthy
that a human being live her life
vicariously through her husband
and children, or that she be sub-
servient for most of her adult
life. What frequently happens is
that the woman is given electro-
convulsive therapy—shock therapy
to the layperson. Or she is
placed on anti-depressants and
put in a therapy group where she
is counseled that her life is

not over, and it's silly for her
to think it is, or for her to
want to end it.

Would you want to end yours?
Have you known anyone who has or
has wanted to? Were you able to
get in touch with why? I can.
And it makes my blood boil to
know that most women today will
be depressed, either mildly or
severely, and consider it "their
problem" and even feel guilty
for needing care and being un-
able to cook and clean for their
husbands because of their depres-
sion. It makes me angry to know
that it will be years before this
changes. Years before male
therapists start to really under-
stand what it is like to be a

woman in this society. Years to be
their own per-

sanat oppression as women, in
all its subtle manifestations—
and years before women patients
stand up and start saying, “
SCREAMING:
NO! I WILL NOT SUBMIT TO
THE MYTH!

Most books written for chil-
dren are insidious perpetuators
of a crippling status quo.
Looking back over our own
childhood favorites, we were
disconcerted to find that we
were exposed to a rather narrow
range of life experiences and
roles in literature. Remember
Nancy (WASP) Drew, whose blond
hair flew in the wind as she
rushed from mystery to mystery
in her brand new sports coupe?
And Peter Pan, surrounded by
sexy little Tinkerbell and the
capable Wendy, and who never
has to grow up and deal with
growing relationships with real
and mature people?

We want children to have a
broader range of reading avail-
able to them - books that offer
alternative values and models
for new ways of functioning.

We must encourage our children
to develop thoughtful analyses
of the printed word from a
very early age, in order that
they may emerge stronger and
more perceptive from exposure
to the abundance of bad books
designed for them.

CENSORSHIP

Censorship robs a child of
a variety of reading experiences,
both good and bad, and denies
the child a chance to develop
his/her discriminatory powers.
However, unless he/she is exposed
to alternatives to prevailing
limits of sex-class-race-age
stereotyping, it will be hard
for any child to see a way out
of the confinement of life
situations presented in tradi-
tional childhood reading
material.

CRITERIA

We set out to explore the
available market in children's
literature. Very few books,
we found, could satisfy our
criteria - that they be non-sex-
ist, non-racist, and non-condes-
cending to young readers - in
other words, that they be
non-chauvinistic in every sense.
Even fewer were interesting,
well-written, or reasonably
priced.

LITTLE MISS MUFFET FIGHTS BACK

The trend in books for little
children is to present very
beautiful, adult-aimed illustra-
tions, accompanied by inane text,
or sugar-coated, but hardly
disguised didacticism. Grownups
are always right in the end;
(white, men) doctors and (white,
motherly) teachers and nurses
and (strong, white, manly)
policemen are not to be disputed.
They will unfailingly lead a
child from pain and error into
the right.

We read a large portion of
the books suggested in a list
called “Little Miss Muffet
Fights Back," printed by Femi-
nists on Children's Media.

These books are principally for
older boys and girls. Most of
them feature girls in major roles;
however, they are limited to

anti-Communism,
youthful adventures;

the world to seek adventure,
gets to keep his pet rabbit for
him, or take care of his dog.

It is made clear that true love

stereotypical behavior and the
stories are thoroughly laced with
ladylike demeanor;
silent male

in the end,
the girls turn for help and
approval. The typical heroine
is either a fairy princess or
the cook-and-mother-figure in
and the
"different" girl, who has no
interest in boys, but wants to

pursue her own interests or
develop her own skills eventually
finds real happiness in the
form of a boyfriend. As
consolation for having to stay

home when her boyfriend goes
to sea, or for having to mind

the hearth while he goes out into
she

's the only happiness for a girl,

that happiness is the only goal

in life, and that this love-
leading-to-happiness consists

of women's silent sacrifice.

FOR LITTLE BOYS

The role models presented
to little boys, although
generally allowing for greater
assertiveness and self-expression
are also limiting, in that they
communicate repeatedly the
importance of competition,
strength, daring, and masterful-
ness, and deny the importance
of softness, sharing, feeling
and reciprocal relationships
with strong, daring, and master-
ful little girls.

We did find several excel-
lent bibliographies of Feminist
literature, which contain
suggestions also for children's
reading. The Feminist Press
at State University of New York,
College at Old Westbury, Box
334, Old Westbury, New York 11568,
lists many sources; KNOW Press,
P.O. Box 86031, Pittsburgh, PA,
15221, publishes a very
comprehensive bibliography of
Women's Literature; the Denver
Public Library, while limited
in Feminist Children's Literature,
has several useful pamphlets in
its "Heritage" series.

From our own explorations
we offer the following (by no
means complete) list of books
we liked, remembering that the
influence of children's books
lies less in the ideology

presented, but finally in the

ability of a child to analyze
what he/she reads, to consider
the printed word from the
perspective of a person who
knows him/herself as a whole
and valuable individual whose
ideas and feelings are valid
and important. We list the
following books as an alterna-
tive presentation to the tradi-
tional portrayal of chauvinism
in our culture's sex roles,
race roles, age roles, and to
economic exploitation
in the name of and over the
bodies and psyches of persons
coerced into those roles.

Both the RIP Bookstore,
at 737 E. 17th Avenue, and
the Woman's Voice Bookstore,
673 South Pearl, are attempting
to stock the above books on
their shelves. The books
should be available soon.

In future issues of Big
Mama Rag, we plan to review
children's books regularly,
and we welcome suggestions and
additions to our list.

Pippi Longstocking, Pippi
Goes on Board, and Pippi in

the South Seas, all by Astrid

Lindgren. Seafarer Books;
the Viking Press. $5.95 each;
paperback.

CHARLOTT

Charlotte's Web, E.B. White.
A Yearling Book; Dell Publish-
ing Co., Inc. $4.95; paperback.

The Little Prince, A. de St.
Exupery. Harbace Paperbound
Library; Harcourt, Brace &

World, Inc. $2.85; paperback.

The Dragon & the Doctor, $1.00;
Challenge to Become a Doctor,
$1.50; E.B. Browning, $1.25;
The Feminist Press, c/o SUNY
College of Old Westbury,

Box 334, Old Westbury, N.Y.
11568.

Life in the Iron Mills,
The Feminist Press.

The Sheep Book; Joshua's Day;
Exactly Like Me; Martin's
Father; Did You Ever; all

by the Lollipop Power Press,
$1.00 each, available from
Lollipop Power - Distribution,
P.O. Box 1171, Chapel Hill,
NC 27514.

Harriet the Spy, Louise Fitz-
hugh. Yearling (Dell); $4.95.

Ira Sleeps Over, Bernard Weber.
Houghton Mifflin; $4.95.
Ferdinand the Bull, Munro Leaf.

The Viking Press.

$1.25.

books cont'd ee

Christina Katerina and the Box,  
Patricia Lee Gaugh, Coward  

McCann Geoghgan, Inc.  
William's Doll, Charlotte  
Zolotow. Harper & Row. $3.95.  

The Giving Tree, Shel Silver-  
stein (1964)  

Birthday, John Steptoe.  
Rinehart. $5.50.  

Women Who Made America Great,  
Harry Garsh. J.B. Lippincott  
Co., Philadelphia, N.Y. 1962.  
Happy Day You, Judy Selby.  
Grossman Publishers, 125a East  
19 Street, N.Y.C. 10003.  
Mommies at Work, Eve Merriam.  
Alfred A. Knopf.  

How the Children Stopped the  

Holt,  

Wars, Jan Wahl. Avon Books,  
Hearst Corp., 959 8th Ave.,  
NY 10011. $1.95.  

One Day for Peace, Alexander  

L. Crosby. Dell Publishing Co's  
750 - 3rd Avenue, New York.  

Harriet in the Promised Land,  
Jacob Lawrence. Windmill Books,  
Inc. Simon & Schuster, Inc.,  
N.Y. 10011  

Dianne & the Rhinoceros, Edward  
Ardizzone. H.Z.  
1964  

Penelope and the Mussels,  
Shirley Boccaccio. Joyful  
World Press, San Francisco.  

The Wizard of Oz, Frank L. Baum.  
Rand McNally & Co. $1.50,  
paperback.  

The Once and Future King, T.H.  
White.  

The Lorax and Horton the Ele-  
phants, Dr. Seuss. Random  

Steve Steptoe.  
& Row.  

Where the Wild Things Are,  

Maurice Sendak. Harper & Row.  

“Harper  

being, up from chaos  

To be, do we need the biz-  
arre skeletons, Christian-  
Judeo see-through closet walls.  
Skeletons impeding Flights of  
Female human Lesbian Freedom,  
Love, Fantasy realities scarier  
than Pain and Suffering.  
We've got skeletons in the  
closets we came out of--  
dangling Bony Fingers, grasping  
at our violent wrenching  
departures, lingering here or  
there, this time or that.  

Esoteric bridal veils the  
Lesbian Nation. Let us be safe  
in our familiar intellectual  
wombs. Our provocative fanta-  
sies a reality, wind without  
tangibility. Tingling,  
Tangling in our necessary  
existences.  

What do we do with the next  
40 years? Do you have 40  
years? Do I? Will over 60  
ever be sexy and sensuous?  
Wisdom--is it appealing? Can  
it be packaged? Can it sell  
cars? Was Whistler's Mother  
masturbating under her knitting?  
Have I no sense of sanctity?  
Nothing is sacred or should be.  
Churches are the opium dens of  
the mind. ORGASMS MAKE NICE  

Walck, New York.  

Rejoice with me --  
I feel spring kicking in the belly of the earth  
being human carries a higher priority than ever  
and birds in the morning still sing in the snow  

Weep with me --  
the oceans gasp for breath:  
war stimulates three economies  
and canaries no longer  
fly against the bars of their cages  

Shout with me --  
SAVE THE EARTH! RESPECT YOUR FEELINGS:  
CONSIDER YOUR FROZEN WINGS  

UNTIL YOU GUESS THEIR MEANING:  

And when you have caught your breath  
relax a little  
wrap up in an afghan  
rest your feet on a handmade footstool  
sip hot cider mulled over sandy embers  
make love in the morning  
sleep in the afternoon and  
before your next trek  
into the snows of indifference  

Rejoice with me --  

in this season  
let's make the time  

What is behind a large ego?  
How do they slip detection on  
our social assembly lines?  
How dare a *Woman of all crea-  
tures possess one? The main-  
stay of self-assertion, the  
crimp in the conditioning. The  
anomaly of 1984 and reality now.  
LESBIAN EGO MANIACS DESTROY  
CHAINS AND BUILD LOVE BONDS.  

I want you to bubble with the joy of  
discovering your own beauty. I  
want you to read this and smile  
somewhere within yourself,  

(*WOMAN, by definition is  
Woman, without man, defined and  
spelled on her own terms.  
Sounds like womb.)  

All I want is the oppor-  

tunity to carve out my own  
existence the way Michelangelo  
chiseled his statue of  
David. I want a Masterpiece  

of humanity, a life with the  
balance and symmetry of a sea-  
gull in flight. I want to  

see 365 sunsets a year, I  
want every day to be like the  

Last day, like the First day,  
vivid impressions, colors,  
textures. I want the sea, I  
want the mountains. I want  
the Earth to receive once  
again, the sane sanctity of  
*Woman. To grow of the wisdom  
we generously sow and reap in  
and out of its folds. I want

SELF =

After a year of consciousness-raising and unfocused political actions, our group decided to direct its energies towards the Women's Health Movement, which we feel has real revolutionary implications for the whole Feminist Movement. Women have lost the power we once had over our own bodies and been forced into dependency on a male-controlled medical profession motivated by profit. There was a time when women were responsible for the health care of their own families and households and midwives responsible for all gynecological and obstetrical care. Reclaiming control of our bodies from the medical industry, Madison Avenue, and big business is a basic step in gaining control of our lives.

Three women in our group traveled to Los Angeles and San Francisco about the same time and gleaned some information from the women's centers about what was happening in women's health. One of these women went back to L.A. and attended a self-health course which met weekly. She learned the simple procedures; she brought back the experience, some literature, and a dozen speculums; and Colorado Springs had its first self-health session that week. We found that our fears and self-consciousness vanished almost at once with the excitement that came with the first real knowledge about our bodies.

We realized why physicians have been reluctant to share their information ($$$) and, more important, we realized we were making a reality out of the slogan "Control of our own bodies."

We have found that what works most effectively for us is to have three sessions with each small group of women (about 6-8 has been maximum). Our first session always begins with a "rap time" when many fears, misconceptions, resentments, and experiences about things like sex, reproduction, and physiology are shared. We find in sharing our experiences that each woman has at some point in her life been mistreated by physicians, and for many it has been a general rule.

One woman we know, having suffered severe cramps for several months, went to her doctor to have her Dalkon shield (IUD) removed. She learned that the device had slipped and that her cervix had dilated. She had been having labor pains for months! (She was led to believe that discomfort was normal in using an IUD.) The irony is that because she knew the cervix would have to be dilated for removal of the device, and because she wanted a non-messy, constant means of birth control besides the pill, she had it removed only as a last resort. Had she been participating in self-health and examining herself on a regular basis, she would have known there was a real problem and would have gone much sooner for help.

Each woman at the first session purchases a packet made up of good factual literature, her own speculum, and the other necessary supplies for self-examination. There are always at least two women present who have been through the recommended three sessions and feel confident about the procedures. These two women demonstrate to the group how to use the speculum and how to give bi-manual (two hands) pelvic examinations and then invite each woman to participate. If for any reason a woman prefers not to take part, of course she needn't do so. So far every woman has been eager for her turn. Seeing your cervix for the first time is a mind-blow! The mystery is gone, and you gain a new liking for your own body.

In the second session most of our anxiety and self-consciousness is gone. We are able to notice more in our examinations (what is a "tipped uterus"? what are the differences in the cervix of a woman who has had children and one who has not? what are the normal changes in color, shape, and size of the cervix?) Rap-time might be discussing the written material distributed the previous week, or any other subject of interest; we have much to learn from each other.

Either the second or third session is a good time to learn breast self-examination, using the step-by-step procedures explained in a handout sheet.

By the third session, women are usually turned on to the political implications of self-health and to the fact that getting to know ourselves may save our lives. We've been killing ourselves with panic abortion methods, going without PAP smears, etc. We hope that women will continue examining themselves on a regular basis from now on. And now many of these women are ready to start new groups, which is how the movement spreads.

The week of October 11-14th a National Self-Health Conference was held in Iowa City in which women from all over the U.S. and even Canada got together to share their questions and knowledge about women's health. We have divided into geographic regions in order to spread self-health to all our sisters in the quickest and most effective way. Women of our region were present from Colorado Springs, Nebraska, and Utah, and we plan to reach out to other states in the coming months.

Women from Self-Health Clinic I in California (the Feminist Women's Health Center in L.A.) were the originators of the national conference and gave us ideas from their own experience over the past two years. We learned skills, saw films, attended workshops, and generally got turned on to the potential of the women's health movement.

We in Colorado Springs are hoping soon to start work in abortion counseling and referral, wider self-health reach-out (to non-feminist women's groups, for example), patient advocacy (i.e. going along with sisters to doctors, hospitals, etc., demanding information, observation, and high standards), and eventually even opening a women's clinic. We have, in effect, become a women's health collective.

Although we have found one supportive doctor, most physicians are threatened by this movement, and we see several reasons for it. First, of course, they are afraid we'll stop coming to them entirely and they'll no longer get our money. For the most part this isn't true, since one of the main results of self-health is that we get women who show some signs of abnormality to go to a doctor sooner than they might usually go, but equipped with more useful information than they might normally have. A woman in a recent self-health class (her first session) had what the more experienced women immediately felt to be an inflammation of the cervix (bright red instead of pink). She was being treated for a bladder infection by a doctor, but had not been examined internally. (Her medication was not reducing pain, incidentally). So with a sister for support, she went to her doctor again the following...

Self-health cont.

ing day and told him about her  
self-examination,  
that what she had seen was a  
possible irritation of the cer-  
vix. He was freaked, but pro-  
ceeded to examine her and he  
was surprised (we weren't) to  
find that she did have “cervi-  
citis" (any irritation of the  
cervix). This would have a  
large effect on the bladder in-  
fection or could be a sign of  
some more serious infection  
“such as gonorrhea. So although  
we cannot diagnose or prescribe,  
we teach each other awareness.  
There is a second reason we  
believe doctors are threatened.  
They need to maintain the eli-  
tist barrier between patient and  
physician and uphold their mys-  
tic powers. It is essential for  
them to hoard and guard their  
knowledge and to keep us ignor-  
ant. We've been told so many  
times "it won't hurt", "you  
can't really feel that way",  
"it's not serious", etc. that we  
begin to doubt ourselves rather  
than the doctor. They see us  
gaining power over our lives;  

unicorn  

STUDIOS  

Mary Ann Sims-Barnett  

In ourselves & others  
reaching for the person  
rather than the role  

1334 Pearl Boulder  

She suggested -  

power which we must take from  
them. It's simply not supposed  
to be our jurisdiction to know  
or care about our own bodies.  

This kind of paranoia clear-  
ly shows in the recent bust at  
the L.A. Feminist Women's  
Health Center. Two women were  
arrested for teaching self  
health to other women. It is  
incredible that these men could  
try to stop us from taking con-  
trol of what should naturally  
belong to us.  

When we begin questioning  
what have been traditional  
practices for generations (such  
as forced sterilization or un-  
necessary removal of reproduc-  
tive genital organs) and when  
we begin demanding gentleness,  
knowledge and control (self  
help, patient advocacy, abor-  
tion on demand) then they show  
us with force (i.e. arrest)  
that it will not be tolerated.  

Women must show solidarity;  
we must continue to learn more  
about all areas of our own  
health; we must teach each other  
whatever skills we learn. We  
in Colorado Springs are ready  
to do whatever is necessary to  
spread the word. The L.A.  
Feminist Women's Health Center  

pegs teases  

love,  

blue tutus  

positioning  
as years,  

+. let humanity be  
children will play again  
survival will be natural  
the walls of prison will  
collapse - to let us  
explore, demand, create  

- let women be  

the hardness of the earth,  
the softness of the wind,  
the communication of  

the understanding of  
mind and body,  
the feeling of intensity  
of her being,  
the sexual and sensual love  
she possesses,  
total, a complete,  
an explainable creator,  
a being representing  
equality,  

the ripple in an old woman's leg  
speaks of ballet  

and naturally rose cheeks  
surrounded by curl;  

in stepping off the bus,  
the snowflakes,  

pile as they fall.  

sums it up beautifully.  

The concept of self-help  

stresses SISTERHOOD that  

makes possible the bene-  

fits from collective know-  
ledge, collective exper-  
iences, collective train-  
ing, and especially the  

sisterly concern for one  

another. When it is nec-  

essary to travel for more  
extensive experiences or  
information, we do.  

Lastly, the self-help con-  

cept emphasizes competent  

medical back-up and the  

use of safe equipment at  

all times.  

We want to hear from sisters  
in the Rocky Mountain Region.  
Are you involved in women's  
health care, are you interested  
in further information, are you  
now working or ready to work in  
the women's health movement?  
Contact us, Colorado Springs  
Women's Health Collective by  
mail at 730 N. Tejon 80903.  

We will cooperate with you in  
furthering the revolutionary  
cause of women’s health and the  
women's movement. Let's begin  
to throw off the oppression of  
the centuries now by a commitment  
to ourselves.  

- let nature be  

in the eyes of  

women  

the mountains will grow  
the seas will flow free  
the land will begin  
to breathe  
the power of the world  

will be love.  

RRS er SEI  

Ellie  

lf

“wwe gestion oe Sage Contained

because rage expressed falls on deaf ears

and produces only more rage —

and humiliation, because they speak’

with depreciation 

about mixed-up Apple Girls,
sedentary Completes and Perms very.

‘If only I could get a job — she had
so much potential as a child
look for security, find a mate, take care of

Standard of Life”:

they are right that I can’t relate to authority or
responsibility, and it sweeps me from the
side of rage when

to the other

heals. Some things are worth being
responsible. I am all of

because the authority of all of us is

the only way

over

there is a way but.

they are right that I will never be

secure in any situation that I cannot
leave third:
at moments warning and take out

that I need for serial care as

the standard
as to just hidden deep
because there is no living
for me
out here.

they are right that I cannot frame

it to be easy again

when I cannot see as clearly

with friends, if I get to be a
parade that writhes me on one side of my belt. 
they are right about the potential of a child.

They argue that it was crushed years ago —

it’s a question of rage

COLLATERAL.

hh 

_Senney
Wag”

"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 1, no. 2, [February 1973].  
Archives of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/  
FFPBRUL270880593/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=  

bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.