35¢

Out of State 45°

August, 1974

Inside: Special Issue on Rape
‘Analysis, Help Services, Legislation,
Self Defense.

Also: Interview with Women's Band,

Summer Solstice in New Mexico,
Big Mama Vs. DSF,
Feminist Guide to Santa Fe.

|EDITOR SUBMISSION Opens October 4th

---

VICTIM

I had just moved into a house. A friend of mine was coming to Colorado and we were going to share the house. I was talking on the phone to her when all of a sudden the line went dead. I thought that we were disconnected but then I realized that the phone was completely dead - I couldn't get the operator or anything. I followed the cord into the hallway where I found it in two pieces. I thought that my cats had chewed it and got some tape to fix it. Then I saw a shadow out of the corner of my eye.

I knew that someone was there so I said “Who is it?” A young, scruffy hippie walked into the living room. He had on an army jacket and blue jeans and wore shoulder-length hair. He stood there with both hands in his pockets. I asked him what he wanted and then I went cold. I thought: don’t mess around with this guy - see what he wants.

I remembered going to a rape conference of Radical Feminists in Philadelphia, where rape victims talked to other women about their assaults and the thing that these women said over and over was that they kept talking to their assailant at first while they tried to piece things together and decide what to do.

All this time my body was cold. I was so scared with fear. He didn’t match my image of a rapist. He looked like an ordinary guy. I pleaded with him not to hurt me - not to kill me. I thought he had a knife in one of his hands. He said “I don’t want to hurt you. I want to love you. Relax, baby, you'll love it, baby.” I thought of escape but realized that I had locked myself into my house by all the safety precautions I had installed. If I screamed, I thought, no one will hear me since it’s so late and maybe it will make him mad and then he will hurt me. The whole time I didn’t know if he was going to kill me or beat me up.

He pulled me into the bedroom and raped me. While he was raping me he grabbed my hand. This was the first time I felt that he wasn’t going to kill me. We were both victims.

He left. I called some friends of mine who came right over. I was very calm but I was hysterical. I wanted to go to the hospital for the examination before I talked to the police. I didn’t want to go to Denver General. I called Rose Memorial but they refused to take care of me in their emergency room. Then I called a private gynecologist to see me. (He is the head of OB-GYN at a big Denver hospital), my friends took me there. All the doctor said while he was there was “disgusting.” Nothing else except when a nurse gave me some DES and I questioned the side effects, he yelled from an adjoining room “that only happens in 1% of all cases.”

"+ Sex Detail Strikes -

The police had arrived at the hospital and gave my friends a hard time for being there. I told the officer in charge quite clearly that I wanted to talk to a policewoman. He said that I couldn't because there were no policewomen on the detail. Women have recently been put on the detail to placate everybody although the women they have on it are not supportive and are out to prove that we're lying.

I told them that I didn’t want to talk at the hospital and that I would meet them at my house. I was told that my friends couldn’t come when they talked to me. “We prefer to do interviews alone. We don’t want you to be influenced.” The police always seem to prefer not to have any other people there when they talk to you. And make you believe it is “law” or “preference.” The attitude of the

More on Page 6

RAPE

by Carol Lease

Photo by Babs Nash

LEGISLATION

The second rape that takes place in the courtroom has finally been recognized as possibly the biggest detriment to a woman's reporting her assault. Feminism is creating a consciousness in women that can no longer accept the existence of the rapist whether he be of the body or of the mind. But criminal codes that define rape and traditional courtroom proceedings that determine the treatment of the alleged rapist and his victim have been created by and for a patriarchal society that is blatantly sexist and anti-woman. And it is the confluent conflict of these socio-political forces that have provided adequate motivation for the District Attorney’s office to present proposals on rape and victim compensation that are to be given top priority for legislative action.

Richard Wood, a chief deputy district attorney who represents the office in legislative matters, says that the D.A.'s office is “very open to any input into this legislation.” He has already met with representatives of almost all of the organizations in the Denver area that are concerned with rape.

Although some of the proposals are controversial, he expects to see some legislative action and would like to see the Colorado District Attorney’s Association sponsor the bill but “if they won’t then the D.A.’s office will.” According to Wood, the former chief deputy of Public Defenders of the State supports the bill. The Denver Post and the Rocky Mountain News have come out editorially in favor of the legislation. “I haven't seen any broad opposition to this legislation,” says Wood.

Abolish “Lord Hale”

The first proposal deals with the “Lord Hale” instruction that most judges in Colorado give the jury at the beginning of a rape trial warning them that the charge of rape “is one easily made and once made, difficult to defend against.”

This instruction unnecessarily singles out rape cases for special treatment, for special “comment” on the victim’s testimony and allegation, and in doing so, tends to prejudice the victim's case. The proposal is that this instruction is not to be given in any rape or sexual assault trial.

The second proposal is one which will prohibit admission into evidence in rape or sexual assault cases testimony relating to the victim's previous sexual conduct on the issue of consent or submission except as it may relate to the victim’s prior sexual conduct with the defendant.

“We think that anyone can be raped. A prostitute can be raped. A jury holds it against a woman if she doesn’t have a sexual life they feel she should,” says Wood. “The testimony that a woman can be forced to give concerning her previous sexual life is often highly irrelevant and can go back several years. Some judges won't allow this kind of fishing expedition of a defense attorney but it is still up to the individual judge and it is generally admitted into evidence.

“Half of the victims reported that if they had to do it again they wouldn't report their rape because of the cross-examination that occurs at the preliminary hearing and at the trial.

“The prohibition of such testimony would hopefully have the effect of encouraging victims to report and prosecute rapes and sexual assaults without fear of public humiliation.”

A proposal similar to this was defeated in Iowa but a substitute was passed that stated that if the defense counsel wanted to inquire into the victim's past sexual history he or she would have to do so in court chambers. If the judge felt that the testimony was relevant then that and only that would be brought out in the trial. This idea has been incorporated into the Colorado proposal.

More on Page 18

HELP

The Denver Coalition on Sexual Assault was organized in March of this year for the purposes of education, rape prevention, encouraging women to report rapes, and providing advocacy services for women.

An ACTION grant that was to be used to recruit volunteers for the coalition was initially approved and then delayed due to alleged budget error on the part of Congress.

The coalition was initially formed to meet the increasing demand for a city-wide agency to deal with victimization. When the Southeast Denver Neighborhood Services Bureau opened it was deluged with calls from all over the city concerning rape victimization programs. It didn't have the money, space, or people to work in the entire city. “We were racing all over...trying to do everything...there just weren't enough of us...so the coalition was formed,” says Dr. Katherine Saltzman, victimization coordinator for SEDNSB.

The coalition sponsored four conferences in May and had a city-wide conference in March. There are task forces to deal with specific areas of concern such as counseling, legislation, victim rap, speakers bureau, health care, minority member, and mass media.

“The coalition needs people power,” says Ms. Saltzman. The summer months have a greater incidence of rape compared to other seasons. The general public that composes juries in rape trials and who are traditionally unsympathetic to rape victims need to gain understanding of the entire issue of rape and the victim. The coalition does not take any particular political approach to the rape issue. Screaming and ranting turns people off. We require some kind of political sophistication.

“The coalition has both men and women, some of whom are victims working with it who need periodic rests.”

Almost any organization or institution in Denver that deals with rape (with the exceptions of the Denver Police Department and their Sex Offense Detail) is represented in the Denver Coalition on Sexual Assault. Both the professional from the District Attorney's office and the woman who works all day at home work together on a common concern - rape.

A Child Advocacy Task Force is being formed in the coalition with the intent of making the child the primary concern in any courtroom proceedings. Often parents won't prosecute their child's molester because of fear of the treatment that the child may get in an open courtroom.

The Counseling Task Force is currently working on a pamphlet for preventive counseling, on counseling immediately after the rape and on long-range counseling through professional and victim-rap groups.

In the past the Victim Rap Task Force has taken part in guided fantasy which is a non-threatening way to get in touch with your feelings. Each rap session will have a specific topic or area of discussion.

The Speakers Task Force has people available to speak to any group that requests it.

The Health Care Task Force is investigating the indiscriminate use of DES (diethyl-stilbestrol), the morning-after pill that is given by emergency room doctors to women who have been raped and were using no form of birth control at the time. The objection is that women are usually not told, or are told after they have taken DES, that it may be harmful to them, cause cancer, affect future children. Often OB-GYN residents are

More on Page 18

ow

2 LETTERS

S
iN

CN DADRA A

eee

\

Big Mama Rag  
Ms. Carol Lease:

In behalf of the local  
chapter of Chicana Welfare  
Rights, we extend to you our  
“Mil Gracias” for the very  
good coverage in your news-  
paper. The paper contained a  
good variety of issues and  
made interesting reading.

We appreciated the editorial  
on the Taimadge Amendment  
and hope to hear from women  
that are interested in helping  
us. We will keep you posted of  
our progress and again  
“Gracias.”

Muy Agradecida,

Patricia Estrada

(La Causa de Los Pobres  
Chicana Welfare Rights Org.)

AL  
®  
)

0  
< Kord or

Dear Big Mama Rag:

This is a letter of the spirit  
that you grow in your beautiful  
way, that your paper contin-  
ues its truth and soul. Also,  
the infold poetry on the last  
issue is the best stuff I have  
read in any publication around  
here in years. To your brilliance  
and hard work-

A buddy  
Ed. Note: We were wondering  
what this letter was going to  
say since it was printed on  
tissue paper! Now, however,  
we just might frame it. Thank  
you!

~~ Inside BMR

Rape: Victim, Legislation, Help ...  
Rape: The All-American Crime ....

The Story of the Denver Sustaining Fund ....................000 50s

B.S. Sugar: An interview .........

First Annual Women’s Festival: Aug. 25 ...................0.00000-

Anne-Marie Goes to Bat ..........  
A Feminist Guide to Santa Fe......

Albuquerque Woman Shares Feelings ...............0....6-000555 10  
Editorials: DSF, Rape, Gossip Countered ....................00055 10  
Open Letter to the Women’s Movement ................0000eeeeeee 1  
National Women’s Political Caucus ..............000 cece cece eeeee

Summer Solstice Festival.........  
BMR Classic Reprint: Resistances to Consciousness

Womansplace....................

News From Across the Country . 15  
VACATED PAIN PUMRULED sistty on arg 95 ie ipa Set Micleace Sis 8 DE ao 0 Tae OS blo Swe 15  
OE a Sis: in deen SR sh ee MIS 16,17  
TESTA, CUD Cag RSS Bar cn Par Ca Me oy A 1

Ann Caldwell, Carolyn Hursch ..... 0.0.0.0... ccc cee elee eee 20  
Help Services, Announcements, Classifieds ....................005 20  
NOW Conference, Book Reviews. .............2. 00 cece eee e eee 21  
SUE RCL Odin ns "oat gear i eee en Berea eT 22

Calendar of Events - August .......

Coordinators  
Jackie Bryson  
Linda Fowler

Photography Editor  
Babs Nash

Advertising Manager  
Ronnie Martin

Feature Editor  
Carol Lease

News Editor  
Chocolate Waters

Poetry Editor  
Pavita Miller

Promotion  
Maureen Mrizek

Layout Editor  
Betsy Peto

Cover design  
by-Terri Zekman

Big Mama Rag Staff

Big Mama Rag is a Feminist periodical published monthly for  
the women of Colorado. Submit poetry and manuscripts to  
BMR by the fifteenth of each month and enclose a self-  
addressed, stamped envelope. We reserve the right to edit all  
material. BMR is published monthly by Big Mama Rag, a non-  
profit corporation. Our office is at 1724 Gaylord, Denver,  
Colorado, 80206. Office hours are from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.  
Monday thru Friday. Call us at 322-2010.

Contributors  
Anne Zeigler  
Angela Wilson  
Pam Scooros  
Joyce Parker  
Carol Hansford  
Donna Good  
Jan Eastburn  
Glenna Booth  
Jan McReynolds  
Kim Branscombe  
Janet Sergi  
Pat Sexton  
Chris Ford  
Sandia  
Bourge Miller  
Sally Morgenstern  
Jessie Fowler  
Mary Britt  
Lallo  
Lynda Hartman  
Libby Denham

Dear Big Mama Rag:

I think that the NOW  
conference (Ed. Note: Held in  
Texas in June. See article p21)  
was a near total disaster as  
were the Sexuality and Lesbi-  
anism workshops. Virtually all  
that was accomplished in  
three days was election of  
officers - the rest of the time  
was frittered away by parlia-  
mentary procedure, politick-  
ing, and factional in-fighting.  
This has definitely got to be  
the low point in NOW’s  
history and from here we  
either move ahead or strangle  
to death. My faith in NOW  
would have been destroyed,  
except that Karen DeCrow, by  
far the most radical of the  
presidential candidates, was  
elected along with a progres-  
sive National Board.

When the Sexuality and  
Lesbianism workshops finally  
did happen, they were poorly  
organized. The National Task  
Force (on Lesbianism) has  
nothing to show for its 18  
months of existence. As far as  
I know, only five to ten chapters  
in the country have a thriving  
and active Lesbian Task  
Force. Gay caucuses were  
held several times, but I didn’t  
get very many constructive  
ideas to bring back to our  
chapter. I heard one horror  
story after another of mis-  
treatment of Lesbians in local  

COMING NEXT ISSUE: A look inside Canyon City  
Women’s Prison, an interview with a former prisoner, a  
report on one of the first Feminist newspapers in the  
country which was put out by a Colorado woman over 50  
years ago, a new advertising column, an interview with  
poet Diane DiPrima, book reviews, poetry, calendar of  
Feminist events and much more. Goes on sale Sept. 1.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

chapters, ranging from un-  
conscious misunderstanding  
to outright oppression.

NOW has two good resolu-  
tions standing from the last  
two National Conferences,  
but implementation is the  
problem. Many chapters have  
actively disregarded these  
resolutions in order to pre-  
serve their community reputa-  
tion, especially in the vulner-  
able regions where the ERA  
has not been ratified. All in all  
it was a discouraging scene  
and I left the conference with  
more doubts about the Lesbi-  
ans' place in NOW than I went  
with.

I pretty much feel now that  
the Lesbians in Ft. Collins  
must unite politically as a  
separate group and articulate  
our common oppression. In  
the meantime, Lesbians with-  
in Ft. Collins NOW are  
coming out and becoming  
more and more visible (as am  
I). We can educate and  
influence our fellow NOW  
members on matters dealing  
with Lesbianism, but the real  
action has to happen outside  
the NOW chapter...

Congratulations on your  
recent publications of BMR -  
they've been packed full of  
good, enjoyable reading.

In sisterhood,  
Laura Stuntz  
Fort Collins

Ry

£2, coud

2o0K%

892-1172

letters home fo mama

Dear Brothers & Sisters:

I am writing to you from a  
Federal Prison Hospital, where  
I am involved in trying to start a  
Gay group. And also in getting  
Gay books put in the library, and  
at least one Gay book sold in the  
commissary. The straight people  
have the Playboy sold to them  
every month when it comes out.  
And there are books on every  
subject except the Gay people in  
the library.

So if you have any ideas that  
might help me get done what  
I want done and what needs done  
in ALL PRISONS, please let me  
know, I will answer all letters that  
come to me.

Please excuse the form letter,  
but I am writing to all the people  
that I have addresses to. So that  
I can get all kinds of information  
that will help.

In The GAY Struggle  
Milton M. Milburn  
11739-116 / 10-F  
P.O. Box 4000  
Springfield, Missouri  
65802

And here's a P.S. we recently  
received from a local woman  
which we can’t omit: My  
husband hates the sight of  
your newspaper. That means  
it must be good, huh?!

BMR Sold  
Here;

RIP Bookstore

Together Books

Denver Free University  
Institute Mountain West  
Women’s Voice

Jerry's News

Footnote Bookstore  
Brooks Towers Pharmacy  
Women in Transition  
Mustard Seed  
Jabberwock — Boulder  
Two Potters — Littleton  
Militant Bookstore

Park Hill Cooperative Bookstore  
Sundiata Books

Stuff N Things

The Common Market  
The Grainery

Brass Plum

Trilogy Bookstore

rN

Big Mama Rag is raising the  
price of the paper to 35 cents  
for all the usual reasons.

RAPE

I have never been free of the fear  
of rape. From a very early age, like  
most women, I have thought of rape as  
part of my natural environment—  
something to be feared and prayed  
against like fire or lightning. I never  
asked why men raped; I simply  
thought it one of the many mysteries  
of human nature.

I was, however, curious enough  
about the violent side of humanity to  
read every crime magazine I was able  
to ferret away from my grandfather.  
Each issue featured at least one “sex  
crime,” with pictures of a victim,  
usually in a pearl necklace, and of the  
ditch or the orchard where her body  
was found. I was never certain why the  
victims were always women, nor what  
the motives of the murderer were, but I  
did guess that the world was not a  
safe place for women. I observed that  
my grandmother was meticulous  
about locks, and quick to draw the  
shades before anyone removed so  
much as a shoe. I sensed that danger  
lurked outside.

At the age of eight, my  
suspicions were confirmed. My  
grandmother took me to the back of  
the house where the men wouldn't  
hear and told me that strange men  
wanted to do harm to little girls. I  
learned not to walk on dark streets,  
not to talk to strangers, or get into  
strange cars, to lock doors, and to be  
modest. She never explained why a  
man would want to harm a little girl  
and I never asked.

If I thought for a while that my  
grandmother's fears were imaginary,  
the illusion was brief. That year, on  
the way home from school, a school-  
mate a few years older than I tried to  
rape me. Later, in an obscure aisle of  
the local library (while I was reading  
Freddy the Pig) I turned to discover a  
man exposing himself. Then, the  
friendly man around the corner was  
arrested for child molesting.

An Uncle, A Father

My initiation to sexuality was  
typical. Every woman has similar  
stories to tell—the first man who  
attacked her may have been a  
neighbor, a family friend, an uncle,  
her doctor, or perhaps her own father.  
And women who grow up in New York  
City always have tales about the  
subway.

But though rape and the fear of  
rape are a daily part of every woman’s  
consciousness, the subject is so  
rarely discussed by that unofficial  
staff of male intellectuals (who write  
the books which study seemingly  
every other form of male activity) that  
one begins to suspect a conspiracy of  
silence. And indeed, the obscurity of  
rape in print exists in marked contrast  
to the frequency of rape in reality, for  
forcible rape is the most frequently  
committed violent crime in America  
today. The Federal Bureau of  
Investigation classes three crimes as  
violent: murder, aggravated assault  
and forcible rape. In 1968, 31,060  
rapes were reported. According to the  
FBI and independent criminologists,  
however, to approach accuracy this  
figure must be multiplied by at least a  
factor of ten to compensate for the  
fact that most rapes are not reported;  
when these compensatory mathematics  
are used, there are more rapes  
committed than aggravated assaults  
and homicides.

When I asked Berkeley, Cali-  
fornia's Police Inspector in charge of  
rape investigation if he knew why men  
rape women he replied that he had not  
spoken with “these people and delved  
into what really makes them tick,  
because that really isn’t my job...”  
However, when I asked him how a  

RAPE.

The All-American Crime

Susan Griffith

This article was reprinted from  
“Ramparts,” September 1971 with the  
permission of Susan Griffith. A very  
small part has been edited.

woman might prevent being raped, he  
was not so reticent, “I wouldn’t advise  
any female to go walking around alone  
at night ...she should lock her car at  
all times.” The Inspector illustrated  
his warning with a grisly story about a  
man who lay in wait for women in the  
back seats of their cars, while they  
were shopping in a local supermarket.  
This man eventually murdered one of  
his rape victims. “Always lock your  
car,” the Inspector repeated, and then  
added, without a hint of irony, “Of  
course, you don’t have to be paranoid  
about this type of thing.”

The Inspector wondered why I  
wanted to write about rape. Like most  
men he did not understand the  
urgency of the topic, for, after all, men  
are not raped. But like most women I  
had spent considerable time speculating  
on the true nature of the rapist.  
When I was very young, my image of  
the sexual offender was a nightmarish  
amalgamation of the bogey man and  
Captain Hook: He wore a black cape,  
and he cackled. As I matured, so did  
my image of the rapist. Rape, I came  
to believe, was only one of the many  
unfortunate evils produced by sexual  
repression. Reasoning by tautology, I  
concluded that any man who would  
rape a woman must be out of his  
mind.

Rapists as Insane

Though the theory that rapists  
are insane is a popular one, this belief  
has no basis in fact. According to  
Professor Menachem Amir's study of  
646 rape cases in Philadelphia,  
Patterns in Forcible Rape, men who  
rape are not abnormal. Amir writes,  
“Studies indicate that sex offenders  
do not constitute a unique or  
psychopathological type; nor are they  
as a group invariably more disturbed  
than the control groups to which they  
are compared.” Alan Taylor, a parole  
officer who has worked with rapists in  
the prison facilities at San Luis  
Obispo, California, stated the ques-  
tion in plainer language, “Those men  
were the most normal men there. They  

had a lot of hang-ups, but they were  
the same hang-ups as men walking  
out on the streets.”

Another canon in apologetics of  
rape is that, if it were not for learned  
social controls, all men would rape.  
Rape is held to be natural behavior,  
and not to rape must be learned. But  
in truth rape is not universal to the  
human species. Moreover studies of  
rape in our culture reveal that, far from  
being impulsive behavior, most rape is  
planned. Professor Amir’s study  
reveals that in cases of group rape (the  
“gangbang” of masculine slang) 90  
percent of the rapes were planned; in  
pair rapes, 83 percent of the rapes  
were planned; and in single rapes, 58  
percent were planned. These figures  
should significantly discredit the  
image of the rapist as a man who  
suddenly is overcome by sexual needs  
society does not allow him to fulfill.

Far from the social control of  
rape being learned, comparisons with  
other cultures lead one to suspect  
that, in our society, it is rape itself  
that is learned. (The fact that rape is  
against the law should not be  

considered proof that rape is not in  

fact encouraged as part of our  
culture.)

This culture’s concept of rape as  
an illegal, but still understandable,  
form of behavior is not a universal  
one. In her study “Sex and  
Temperament,” Margaret Mead de-  
scribes a society that does not share  
our views. The Arapesh do not “…have  
any conception of the male nature that  
might make rape understandable to  
them.” Indeed our interpretation of  
rape is a product of our conception of  
the nature of male sexuality. A  
common retort to the question, why  
don’t women rape men, is the myth  
that men have greater sexual needs,  
that their sexuality is more urgent than  
women’s. And it is the nature of  
human beings to want to live up to  
what is expected of them.

And this same culture which  
expects aggression from the male  
expects passivity from the female.  
Conveniently, the companion myth  
about the nature of female sexuality is  
that all women secretly want to be  
raped. Lurking beneath her modest  
female exterior is a subconscious  
desire to be ravished. The following  
description of a stag movie, written by  
Brenda Starr in Los Angeles’ under-  
ground paper, “Everywoman,” typifies  
this male fantasy. The movie “showed  
a woman in her underclothes reading  
on her bed. She is interrupted by a  
rapist with a knife. He immediately  
wins her over with his charm and they  
get busy sucking and fucking.” An  
advertisement in the “Berkley Barb”  
reads, “Now as all women know from  
their daydreams, rape has a lot of  
advantages. Best of all it's so simple.  
No preparation necessary, no plan-  
ning ahead of time, no wondering if  
you should or shouldn't; just whang!  
bang!” Thanks to Masters and  
Johnson even the scientific canon  
recognizes that for the female,  
“whang! bang!” can scarcely be  
described as pleasurable.  
You Loved It!

Still, the male psyche persists  
in believing that, protestations and  
struggles to the contrary, deep inside  
her mysterious feminine soul, the  
female victim has wished for her own  
fate. A young woman who was raped  
by the husband of a friend said that  
days after the incident the man  
returned to her home, pounded on the  
door and screamed to her, “Jane, Jane.  
You loved it. You know you loved it.”

The theory that women like  
being raped extends itself by  
deduction into the proposition that  
most or much of rape is provoked by  
the victim. But this too is only myth.  
Though provocation, considered a  
mitigating factor in a court of law, may  
consist of only “a gesture,” according  
to the Federal Commission on Crimes  
of Violence, only 4 percent of reported  
rapes involved any precipitative  
behavior by the woman.

The notion that rape is enjoyed  
by the victim is also convenient for the  
man who, though he would not  
commit forcible rape, enjoys the idea  
of its existence, as if rape confirms  
that enormous sexual potency which  
he secretly knows to be his own. It is  
for the pleasure of the armchair rapist  
that detailed accounts of violent rapes  
exist in the media. Indeed, many men  
appear to take sexual pleasure from  
nearly all forms of violence. Whatever  
the motivation, male sexuality and  
violence in our culture seem to be  
inseparable. James Bond alternately  
whips out his revolver and his cock and  
though there is no known connection  
between the skills of gun-fighting and  
love-making, pacifism seems suspi-  
ciously effeminate.

In a recent fictional treatment of  
the Manson case, Frank Conroy writes  
of his vicarious titillation when  
describing the murders to his wife:

“Every single person there  
was killed.” She didn’t move.

“It sounds like there was  
torture,” I said. As the words  
left my mouth I knew there was  
no need to say them to frighten  
her into believing that she  
needed me for protection.”

The pleasure he feels as his  
wife’s protector is inextricably mixed  
with pleasure in the violence itself.  
Conroy writes, “I was excited by the  
killings, as one is excited by  

catastrophe on a grand scale, as one is  
alert to pre-echoes of unknown  
changes, hints of unrevealed secrets,  
rumblings of chaos…”  
More on Page 7

4 NEWS —

To: The Denver Sustaining Fund

From: The BIG MAMA RAG Collective

The Big Mama Rag Collective has decided that it will not be
returning to the DSF for additional funding in the future.

BMR has also decided to withdraw its membership in the DSF
because we feel that such participation is a drain of our energies
and a waste of time. We will be working with the women’s
community to raise the money we need to continue.

This decision was made by an overwhelming majority of the
women present at our meeting of July 14, 1974.

BMR also wants to state officially that we deeply appreciate the
support and help we received from the many community women
who attended the July 10 meeting of the DSF and from Kathy De
Paolo and Jim McNulty of the Board of Directors of DSF.

THE BOARD

The boys were playing their inherited role as bankers. We
unfortunately fell into the position of answering their absurd
questions of financial projections in similar terms instead of our
own politics - the necessity and vision of a woman's world...

The boys are only interested in supporting their own sense of
self-importance, $400 per month worth while funding the sacred
community $200...

I think the main issues were not dealt with. The underlying
conflict was the leftist male analysis and with it their priorities -
which are the male-defined community and a class analysis which
excludes the real status and experience of women in a sexist
society.

Janet Sergi

When the women from different groups offered support to BMR
at the DSF meeting, I was very excited. While I’ve been in Denver, I
have not seen support and strength to the degree I saw here. I felt
our roots growing together, strengthening the women’s
community. The fear I saw from some other people makes me
wonder how the DSF can presently hope to work with the
community if it is threatened by the community and the potentials
within it! The fund itself has a potential which won't be met until it
deals with its own fear...

Lynda Hartman

THE AUDIENCE

Putting out the newspaper is our first priority and the reason we
originally went to the DSF. Many hours of the staff's time was
spent writing and reworking proposals. It was our feeling that the
constant demand for new proposals was a way of evading the
issue of funds for BMR...

It is hypocritical for groups within the DSF with no working
class basis to criticize BMR for not having that basis. To us,
working class can be defined as living from paycheck to
paycheck. This definition applies to many of the women who
read BMR. It can therefore be stated that we do have ties with the
working class. We doubt that this is true of most of the groups
within the DSF.

—Carol Hansford, Kate Sharp

THE STORY

The following is a recapitulation of basic facts which led
to the controversy with the Denver Sustaining Fund:

1. BMR was a member of the
Denver Sustaining Fund
(DSF), a “radical” funding
source for “alternative”
groups.

2. June 18 - BMR found itself broke.
3. June 19 - BMR submitted a
proposal to DSF for money:
$3500.

4. July 19 - BMR sent home
with empty pockets.
5. June 20 - BMR pissed off -
wrote new proposal: $1500.
6. July 10 - BMR and 50
female supporters submitted
second proposal and raised
hell.
7. July 10 - Being a chip off
the old block, the DSF sent us
home with $250. Told us to
“Come again, ladies.”
8. July 14 - LIBERATION DAY!
BMR decided to bring it all
back home. i.e.,
a.) to not return to the
DSF
b.) to withdraw from the
DSF
c.) to get it together with
the sisters for support.

THE EDITORS

Bringing it all back home is what this confrontation has been
about. Though surfacely - and even in an unconscious lie to
themselves - the DSF feels ultimately liberated that they don’t
need to be educated, their actions show they are missing the
point. The “radicals” turned out to be the Establishment Wed.
night—their $250. A “no” to a vision. They did not see women
forced to go before them as anything more than the girls trying to
get their shit together. The terms for granting money were
superlatively capitalistic - the justifications were in terms
of money, cost flow charts, return probabilities, etc...

Men have had print since Gutenberg. They sought in the word a
reflection of themselves AND in 500 years have failed to make the
word real, to give back to the earth sinew and life. Since 1968, six
years of birthing, the Women’s Movement has realized the full
capacity of media and sisterhood to be unifying. That by joining
together with paper and bookstore as part of the focus, women
can renew the journey. This time around that train full of poetry,
not dialectic, calling women on board in true coalition, has
arrived.

Sandy Belgrade (“the woman in the purple shirt”)

I was under the impression that the DSF represented some sort
of counter culture community here in Denver. Upon closer
analysis, however, I find that the member groups do not seem to
represent any kind of broader community... Therefore, I believe
that we do not have anything to gain by dealing with this group of
people. We have a large and growing women’s community here in
Denver that is visible and supportive and ready to move. This is
the area we should concentrate on...

Basically I’m bored with the boys and with their games,
intellectual masturbation and static social hierarchies. I think we
can get alternative funding without demeaning ourselves or our
sisters. The DSF is basically a boy’s illusion and we've had the
privilege of exposing it.

Maureen Mrizek

I feel like I just been had and with my assistance. What fools! A
$250 “NO.”... For the kind of time and effort we have given the
DSF we could have brought together the entire women’s
community of Denver... I am saying right now that my life and my
energies are for women - not for the male ego and not for male
political games... BIG MAMA LIVES!

Linda Fowler

I hate to say I told you so but...
Chocolate

INTERVIEW |

Local Women’s Band

Says What They Think

Bourge Miller

Beverly Mayes, Sylvia Brady, Sharon Bankes. Three talented women who, as individuals, have come together to form the musical group known as B.S. Sugar and Company. Although the group is now in what they call its “infant stages,” none of the women are strangers to professional music. Beverly and Sylvia, who are sisters, started performing as a duo 11 years ago in California. They have performed together off and on ever since. Two and a half years ago Sharon, who sung with various rock groups, joined them and a close personal and musical bond was formed.

Sylvia, who plays primarily lead guitar, designed and built the sound system they now use. Beverly, who along with Sharon, lends her considerable vocal talents to the group, plays both 12-string and bass guitar.

In a small room in the Capital Plaza Inn, crowded with the activity of preparing for the evening's show, they talked about their music, its message, and its place in raising a larger consciousness in all of us.

BMR: As women, do you generally dress for your audience, giving a great deal of thought to projecting yourself visually in a certain way?

SHARON: We're not trying to get into a bag of three women looking alike, but we are trying to project a group image. Too often the people are maybe attracted to one thing on the stage and not us as a group. It’s like we want... we’re blending in with each other as much as with our music.

BEV: We do wish to produce a very solid front. A very solid group image. The group is a coordination of all of our efforts and we want our group image to be a coordination of all of our efforts.

The women consider that they are a local product musically. Beverly and Sharon had given up music in California because of the ways in which they felt they were being taken advantage of as women. Never quite being able to escape those particular circumstances until recently, they had not performed for ten months prior to this current engagement, preferring to devote their time and energy developing their other talents and strengths.

BEV: The bar scene is very difficult to handle because you constantly have people pulling at you and drawing everything away from you and not really adding anything back.

But they decided to regroup and start again after realizing that music was their deepest interest and because

BEV: ...from an economic standpoint we found that as women we can make more money doing music for a few hours a day.

SYLVIA: We're not being sold as sex objects either in our performances or otherwise. And I think perhaps that’s what was wrong before. We became a product.

BMR: Are there any specific problems or disappointments in marketing your music or yourselves as a group that you feel have grown out of being an all-women’s band?

SYLVIA: There is wonderment on many people's part at first. It’s a relatively new thing. Women coming together in groups to do things has been an unusual thing culturally. I would say we meet reluctance, but not non-acceptance. So far.

BEV: Of course whenever you're doing this type of thing, you’re in essence in a fishbowl and people are going to pick you apart. But from a behind-the-scenes standpoint, when Sylvia and I were together, I felt we were a freak. People would come just strictly to see what two girls were doing.

SHARON: (laughing) Now they come to see what three are doing.

BEV: In some instances we were catered to because we were women. In other instances we met with very strong opposition because we had more or less crossed a barrier.

BMR: Women aren’t supposed to do that sort of thing?

BEV: It’s alright if they do it, but they can’t be good at it.

SHARON: And that can’t be their main objective.

BEV: Not if you're playing an instrument. If you were a singer or a tambourine player or wore a sexy gown, that was fine. You were in your place and limited.

BMR: Don’t you think that’s symptomatic of the culture rather than the music business?

BEV: Yes, but that’s being alleviated. We don’t seem to meet the same opposition now. There is a certain acceptance now that we are women, we do this thing, and do it reasonably well. We’re not put down nor do other people feel threatened by us.

BMR: Don’t you think the women’s movement has helped that?

BEV: Yes, and we've found we appeal to a very wide variety of people... so ultimately we would like to have a message.

BMR: Is there one group of people or a particular audience you ultimately want to speak to through your music?

BEV: I think my message, and I don’t know if Sharon and Sylvia would go along with me completely, would be the total raising of everyone’s consciousness. To help people accept one another as human beings. First. Second, whatever else. I am a person first,

“We have to get our foot in the door first,” says Sharon Bankes, a member of the all-women band known as B.S. Sugar. From left to right: Sylvia Brady, Sharon Bankes, and Beverly Mayes. Photo By Germain Munoz

then a musician, then a woman. I feel that human beings can accept each other as human beings on a more open level. I feel we should look at one another first as persons and then whatever you do. And not put somebody down because they do something different than you or feel differently or act differently. I feel we have to learn to allow space for one another and at the same time being careful that our space doesn't infringe on someone else's.

BMR: That’s a very humanistic philosophy. Are any or all of you strong Feminists?

SHARON: In my own little realm I never had that much difficulty being a woman. I mostly spaced everybody out anyway. Lately, I’ve come to realize the difficulty in being a woman first. First you've got to prove something there. Then maybe they’ll look at your other talents. If they think you have one.

SYLVIA: I have a very humanistic feeling about the whole race. But there are problems women face, I’ve certainly faced a few in my life, that need to be equalized.

BEV: I think there are a lot of inequities in many areas. And until we as human beings can learn to live with one another those inequities will exist. The Feminist Movement, Black, Chicano, Gay Liberation. To me that’s like taking an aspirin when you should be taking penicillin. I think it’s treating the symptoms, not the cause.

BMR: You must be aware that to many women you may already be a certain symbol of success. Another group of women who've “made it.” Do you feel a particular burden for that?

SHARON: No. Absolutely not. I feel like marching for it. But marching for it in my own way, O.K.? I can't go out and march for Gay Liberation, or march for women. I don’t have the time for one thing. But if we ever do make it big, maybe I could be in a better position to help someone or something.

BEV: At this particular moment we don’t have the space to allow for a lot of things we’d like to allow for. To sum up our feeling about the whole thing: you can only raise someone else to your level. So if you're here (indicating waist level) you can only bring them up this high. But if you're here (indicating a level above her head) you can bring them up this high. And so I think our primary effort at this time will be devoted to our music because our music is our method of communication. And it's not all that we want it to be because there's not been time to say everything we want to say. But it will get said.

BMR: So in a way you're making some concessions, in a sense, as a means to an end.

BEV: Right.  
SHARON: Exactly.

SYLVIA: I don’t know what you mean by concessions.

BMR: I meant that there are certain things you want to do with your music. The type of music you were doing Saturday night was very middle of the road, popular tunes and so forth, but by and large designed not to offend. Commercial. I assume this is not the music you'd rather be doing, ultimately, but you're doing it for a purpose, i.e. to establish yourselves on a firm foundation to go on and do other things. In that sense I meant making a concession.

SYLVIA: Right. Exactly. That's the concession. I'd hoped you'd done it right.

BMR: There is an immense amount of power that any form of mass communication wields. Advertising is one. Music is really no different. And there is an enormous responsibility that goes with that power. With music, the means of communication are even broader because music is more universal. It transcends the language. Putting myself in your place, and being a strong Feminist, if I had your talents I'd want to use them to further that particular cause. I wonder if you feel the same and if you feel you have to hold yourselves back in some areas so as not to offend now in order to someday...

SHARON: ...we have to get our foot in the door first.

BEV: We intend to lay a very concrete foundation. Because of our ideas of Ourself, and I say Ourself as one, because we are as one. Individually we are stronger about some things than we are about others. Sylvia and Sharon are both probably stronger Feminists than I am. But by the same token, with Ourself, yes, I would say we are somewhat Feminist. And yes, I feel we have some messages in that.

SYLVIA: I think what she’s trying to get at... People need to work at all levels for their particular cause each person has their own little thing that suits them to work for. And we would work for something like that (Feminism) because things like that need to be done first before the larger consciousness that Beverly is talking about can be achieved. The Blacks need their freedom first, then they'll be equals and able to function on this great consciousness level... women, I think, need equality, then everybody’ll be able to function a little better. And I think you have to meet those things in very small ways. And that’s the thing we try to do that we aren't making any concessions about. For instance, something that we use when we go on the stage and it’s probably misleading culturally. Everybody does it and if we can do one small thing to change that, we will have done something. We say “Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, welcome” to wherever we are. Beverly said... don’t you think we should be using something like hello everybody, good evening persons, or something like that. To let people know those differences don't exist.

SHARON: That separation.

SYLVIA: And I feel things get done in these small ways. A person who is aware that there is an injustice or an inequality has to try to change it. People are culturally habituated to saying things that are not equal or not just. Habits are really hard to break, and people like us, who have some influence over what goes on... if we start changes, perhaps they'll manifest themselves in other people... I think it’s the small things you have to

More on Page 19

VICTIM

From Page 1

officer in charge was “well, for every
victim who thinks that I don’t treat
her well, there are 5 who think that I
do.”

The next day when I went downtown
to do a composite drawing of the
rapist the man who I worked with on
the drawing said, after a few minutes
of work, “You're not so bad.” It seems
that the rumor had been circulated
that a real man-hater (me) was coming
down that day. When I was describing
the man they kept trying to talk me
into describing him as being a
Chicano. They practically told me that
it was a Chicano because the area I
lived in is near a Chicano neighbor-
hood.

The men at work didn't know how to
approach the fact that I had been
raped. Typical comments were: “did
you enjoy it?” “could you get off on
it?” There weren’t any visible signs of
what happened to me because I wasn't
beaten up. It was very shattering in a
middle-class way. This great tragedy
had happened inside me and some
people were so intolerant of what was
happening to me. Their attitude was
“sure you should be angry but get a
hold of yourself.”

My mom was so upset but she tried
not to show it. First she cried all the
time. She didn’t tell any of her friends.
She didn’t talk to me for two weeks.
She thought of me as a soiled,
shameful thing. Then one night I
called her and told her that I was not
guilty that the rape had nothing to do
with sex. It is violence. I am not
promiscuous, mother. It’s a good
thing that I had a good sense of my
own sexuality. The attack reinforced
things for me. It made my feminism

stronger. Men fuck women over. See, I
wasn't trying to say anything but,
he didn’t ask questions. He was just
there. He was my friend. Very
supportive. He boarded up the
basement window that the rapist
broke in through. The guy would never
have gotten on the first floor of the
house if the latch to the basement
door had been hooked. A friend had
been moving stuff into the basement
that day and had forgotten to latch it.

Friends got on me as to why I wasn’t
going out with men. The police felt
that the attack made me hate men. I
don’t hate men. I hate the male
system.

I see that rape is not a sexual crime.
It is a violent, aggressive, intimidating
crime. Sex is the way it is expressed.

Rapist Returns

About two weeks after the attack I
got home late with a friend. We went
in the house through the back door
and discovered that someone was
trying to get in through the front door.
It was the rapist. He had come back.
He ran down the street. We called the
police and five rookies showed up.
There were footprints in the snow and
fingerprints on the door, but they
didn’t take any of them. They didn’t
fingerprint the first time he broke

in. Another woman reported that a guy by the
same description had attempted to
attack her in a parking lot. She
scared him off and saw him disappear
into an alley. A car emerged with him in
it. She told police but I don’t know if
anything was done about attempting
to locate the car.

Then one rainy day I was driving
down Colfax when I saw him walking
on the street. I recognized him
immediately. I followed him and
reached up to clear my windshield of
fog when I accidentally hit the horn.
He saw me and ran into a house. I
called police and was criticized for not
having called earlier. But I didn't think
that they would get there on time and
he would have been gone. The car that
the other woman reported seeing him
in was parked in front of the house. He
lived within two blocks of me.

The police came to my house with
pictures of him which I identified. He
was arrested. I didn’t hear anything for
weeks. Then I was subpoenaed to be a
witness. I didn’t know why I was being
called since there was no explanation
of what I was appearing for.

The guy had attacked 15 women in a
6 block radius in 18 months. It
seems, he had been abused as a child.
Strapped to a bed when he was 5. A
loner - he had indecently exposed
himself 60 or 70 times. He had normal
sexual relations with other women. He
was a normal guy, just quiet and
withdrawn.

Two days before the preliminary
hearing I got a call from the District
Attorney’s office. They came with a
paralegal to get my story.

I wanted to know exactly what might
happen in the trial and what the
alternatives were for the defendant. A
woman lawyer kindly gave me an hour
of her time and explained what
penalties he might face if he was
found guilty. If he were found
innocent he would be free. If he were
found guilty he could be sent to Buena
Vista or to Canon City for 5 to 40
years, and could be paroled in as little
as a year. If he were sentenced under
the Sex Offenders Act, which was
established for the mentally or
criminally ill, he could be sentenced
for 1 day to life.

The Trial

His attorney was an older man and
the defendant put on the innocent
routine. He was charged with rape
seven times, breaking and entering
and deviant sexual intercourse. He
was such a scrawny little kid in the
courtroom. He seemed so big and
brutal that night.

He pleaded not guilty by reason of
insanity and was sent to the State
Hospital at Pueblo for examination.
He admitted that he went around the
neighborhood early in the evening to
look in windows and see who would
be home alone. Most rapes are
planned and this guy is no exception.
He would rape a woman at 6:30 in the
evening and then another at 8:00 the
next morning.

There are two definitions of insanity
- criminal and mental. The criminally
insane don’t know the difference
between right and wrong or are driven
by a force that they can’t control. The
rapist wasn’t found criminally insane.
He was found sane and the D.A. office
plea bargained - they figured, or so I
was told, that if he pleaded guilty he
could have been sentenced to Buena
Vista (since he was 18) and been

Big Mama Ray Vol. 3, No. 2

If you smoke, forget what mother told
you about the kind of women who
smoke on the street. You don’t have to

smoke it, anyway; just carry it. It

burns.

A comb, brush, key or pencil can be an
effective weapon. Or dig the teeth of
your comb (or your fingernails) into
his face.

Use an umbrella like a bayonet, not a
club, and aim for his throat or

stomach.

The Punch — Start with your fist,
crunched up as hard as possible
(thumb folded) drawn back against
your side. Extend in a straight line to
your target - ideally his face, alterna-
tively his solar plexus. Whatever you
do, don’t beat with the side of your
little fists on his big chest - you are just
helping him play Tarzan.

released in 24 months, which is what
often happens up there. So they
plea-bargained with him by agreeing
to drop some charges so he would
plead guilty to the rest and be
sentenced under the Sexual Offenders
Act which put him in Pueblo for a
while. It is possible that he would be
released in 6 months but not probable.
If he got out that soon the D.A. would
challenge the release but it’s not done.

Every D.A., cop, lawyer tells you
something different, it seems. There
is nothing preventative in this state.
It’s all after the fact. He should have
been helped when he was caught
indecently exposing himself. Anyway,
he’s put away for awhile.

I was lucky in a way. Most women
don’t get the satisfaction of being able
to tell a complete story. Their rapists
are never caught. Their rapists are still

that much.

walking around Denver streets.

Kicking

To Block A Kick Or Punch
There is only one thing to remember in
doing a block, your third essential
technique. Sweep. The sweep ensures
that you will catch the blow (with your
arm instead of your body) no matter
what stage it’s in. In other words,
striking directly out at an incoming
fist will most likely result in a miss for
you and contact for him. But if you
sweep over the general area he’s
aiming for, you'll deflect the blow.
And if you do it firmly enough, you'll
hurt his arm as well as surprise him.

Heel of Palm Blow — flex your wrist,
stretch fingers back, tuck thumb in
(always do this; so that you don’t
accidentally catch your thumb on
something). Striking surface is that
nice strong bone called the heel of the
palm. Hit him under the chin, hard, or
on the end of his nose, a blow which
can be fatal if delivered with enough
force.

RAPE

RAPE: The All-American Crime

From Page 3

The attraction of the male in our culture to violence and death is a tradition Manson and his admirers are carrying on with tireless avidity (even presuming Manson’s innocence, he dreams of the purification of fire and destruction). It was Malraux, in his “Anti-Memoirs” who said that for the male, facing death was the illuminating experience analogous to childbirth for the female. Certainly our culture does glorify war and shroud the agonies of the gun-fighter in veils of mystery.

And in the spectrum of male behavior, rape, the perfect combination of sex and violence, is the penultimate act. Erotic pleasure cannot be separated from culture, and in our culture male eroticism is wedded to power. Not only should a man be taller and stronger than a female in the perfect love-match, but he must also demonstrate his superior strength in gestures of dominance which are perceived as amorous. Though the law attempts to make a clear division between rape and sexual intercourse, in fact the courts find it difficult to distinguish between a case where the decision to copulate was mutual and one where a man forced himself upon his partner.

The scenario is even further complicated by the expectation that, not only does a woman mean “yes” when she says “no,” but that a really decent woman ought to begin by saying “no,” and then be led down the primrose path to acquiescence. Ovid, the author of Western Civilization’s most celebrated sex-manual, makes this expectation perfectly clear:

..and when I beg you to say

“yes,” say “no.” Then let me lie

outside your bolted door....So

Love grows strong....

Rape in Heterosexual Relations

That the basic elements of rape are involved in all heterosexual relationships may explain why men often identify with the offender in this crime. But to regard the rapist as the victim, a man driven by his inherent sexual needs to take what will not be given him, reveals a basic ignorance of sexual politics. For in our culture heterosexual love finds an erotic expression through male dominance and female submission. A man who derives pleasure from raping a woman clearly must enjoy force and dominance as much or more than the simple pleasures of the flesh. Coitus cannot be experienced in isolation. The weather, the state of the nation, the level of sugar in the blood—all will affect a man's ability to achieve orgasm. If a man can achieve sexual pleasure after terrorizing and humiliating the object of his passion, and in fact while inflicting pain upon her, one must assume he derives pleasure directly from terrorizing, humiliating and harming a woman. According to Amir's study of forcible rape, on a statistical average the man who has been convicted of rape was found to have a normal sexual personality, tending to be different from the normal, well-adjusted male only in having a greater tendency to express violence and rage.

And if the professional rapist is to be separated from the average dominant heterosexual, it may be mainly a quantitative difference. For the existence of rape as an index to masculinity is not entirely metaphorical. Though this measure of masculinity seems to be more publicly exhibited among “bad boys” or aging bikers who practice sexual initiation through group rape, in fact, “good boys” engage in the same rites to prove their manhood.

In Stockton, a small town in California which epitomizes silent-majority America, a bachelor party was given last summer for a young man about to be married. A woman was hired to dance “topless” for the amusement of the guests. At the high point of the evening the bridegroom-to-be dragged the woman into a bedroom. No move was made by any of his companions to stop what was clearly going to be an attempted rape. Far from it. As the woman described, “I tried to keep him away—told him of my Herpes Genitalis, et cetera, but he couldn't face the guys if he didn't screw me.” After the bridegroom had finished raping the woman and returned with her to the party, far from chastizing him, his friends heckled the woman and covered her with wine.

Force in Group Rape

It was fortunate for the dancer that the bridegroom's friends did not follow him into the bedroom for, though one might suppose that in group rape, since the victim is outnumbered, less force would be inflicted on her, in fact, Amir’s studies indicate, “the most excessive degrees of violence occurred in group rape.” Far from discouraging violence, the presence of other men may in fact encourage sadism, and even cause the behavior. In an unpublished study of group rape by Gilbert Beis and Duncan Cahpell, the authors refer to a study by W.H. Blanchard which relates, “The leader of the male group...apparently precipitated and maintained the activity, despite misgivings, because of a need to fulfill the role that the other two men had assigned to him. ‘I was scared when it began to happen,’ he says. ‘I wanted to leave but I didn’t want to say it to the other guys—you know—that I was scared.’”

Thus it becomes clear that not only does our culture teach men the rudiments of rape, but society, or more specifically other men, encourage the practice of it.

“Every man I meet wants to protect me. Can't figure out what from.” —Mae West

If a male society rewards aggressive, domineering sexual behavior, it contains within itself a sexual schizophrenia. For the masculine man is also expected to prove his mettle as a protector of women. To the naive eye, this dichotomy implies that men fall into one of two categories: those who rape and those who protect. In fact, life does not prove so simple. In a study euphemistically entitled “Sex Aggression by College Men,” it was discovered that men who believe in a double standard of morality for men and women, who in fact believe most fervently in the ultimate value of virginity, are more liable to commit “this aggressive variety of sexual exploitation.”

(At this point in our narrative it should come as no surprise that Sir Thomas Malory, creator of that classic tale of chivalry, The Knights of the Round Table, was himself arrested and found guilty for repeated incidents of rape.)

In the system of chivalry, men protect women against men. This is not unlike the protection relationship which the mafia established with small businesses in the early part of this century. Indeed, chivalry is an age-old protection racket which depends for its existence on rape.

We Call It Chivalry

According to the male mythology which defines and perpetuates rape, it is an animal instinct inherent in the male. The story goes that sometime in our pre-historical past, the male, more hirsute and burly than today’s counterparts, roamed about an uncivilized landscape until he found a desirable female. (Oddly enough, this female is not pictured as more muscular than the modern woman). Her mate does not bother with courtship. He simply grabs her by the hair and drags her to the closest cave. Presumably, one of the major advantages of modern civilization for the female has been the civilizing of the male. We call it chivalry.

But women do not get chivalry for free. According to the logic of sexual politics, we too have to civilize our behavior. (Enter chastity. Enter virginity. Enter monogamy.) For the female, civilized behavior means chastity before marriage and faithfulness within it. Chivalrous behavior in the male is supposed to protect that chastity from involuntary defilement. The fly in the ointment of this otherwise peaceful system is the fallen woman. She does not behave. Therefore, she does not deserve protection. Or, to use another argument, a major tenet of the same value system: what has once been defiled cannot again be violated. One begins to suspect that it is the behavior of the fallen woman and not that of the male, that civilization aims to control.

The assumption that a woman who does not respect the double standard deserves whatever she gets (or at the very least “asks for it”) operates in the courts today. While in some states a man's previous rape convictions are not considered admissible evidence, the sexual reputation of the rape victim is considered a crucial element of the facts upon which the court must decide innocence or guilt...

According to the double standard a woman who has had sexual intercourse out of wedlock cannot be raped. Rape is not only a crime of aggression against the body; it is a transgression against chastity as defined by men. When a woman is forced into a sexual relationship, she has, according to the male ethos, been violated, but she is also defiled if she does not behave according to the double standard, by maintaining her chastity, or confining her sexual activities to a monogamous relationship.

“Bad Girls” Get Raped

One should not assume, however, that a woman can avoid the possibility of rape simply by behaving. Though myth would have it that mainly “bad girls” are raped, this theory has no basis in fact. Available statistics would lead one to believe that a safer source is promiscuity. In a study of rape done in the District of Columbia, it was found that 82 percent of the rape victims had a “good reputation.” Even the Police Inspector’s advice to stay off the streets is rather useless, for almost half of reported rapes occur in the home of the victim and are committed by a man she has never before seen. Like indiscriminate terrorism, rape can happen to any woman, and few women are ever without this knowledge...

Clearly the white man’s chivalry is aimed only to protect the chastity of “his” women. As a final irony that same system of sexual values from which chivalry is derived has also provided womankind with an unwritten code of behavior, called femininity, which makes a feminine woman the perfect victim of sexual aggression. If being chaste does not ward off the possibility of assault, being feminine certainly increases the chances that it will succeed. To be submissive is to defer to masculine strength; is to lack muscular development or any interest in defending oneself; is to let doors be opened, to have one’s arm held.

More on Page 23

8 NEWS _

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

Chris Ford

The first day of National  
Women’s Week and the day  
before the anniversary of  
Women’s Suffrage will be the  
day of celebration for Denver  
area women - Sunday, August  
25, all day at the Esplanade in  
front of East High, Colfax and  
Detroit.

Why First Annual? So there  
can be a second, third and  
fourth annual! A coalition of  
Denver women from various  
groups began meetings on  
July 4, and agreed to create a  
Celebration / Communication  
Exchange Festival Day where  
women could see the variety  
and depth of their own  
community in a display of  
women’s services and organi-  
zations - politics, arts and  
crafts, performers, crazy car-  
nival booths, womanfood and  
anomalous celebrants.

Exhibitors fees are $2. for  
individual artists and crafts-  
women or others providing  
their own exhibit table, $10.  
for booth accommodations  
and groups and 10% of sales  
from all participants. If there  
is any money from the festival  
not needed to cover expenses,  
they will be held by the  
coalition representing the  
Denver Women’s Community.  
Plans are being made to  
create a type of “Women's  
needs of women’s organiza-  
tions so that they might grow.

Fee checks for the Women’s  
Festival are payable to Rocky  
Mountain Women in the Arts,  
c/o Nancy O’Brien, 1074  
Dartmouth, 761-0082.

Thirty-six women’s groups  
ranging from NOW to the  
Abortion Referral Service to  
B.S. Sugar have been con-  
tacted to participate in the  
festival. Coalition meetings  
are held every Thursday at  
7:30 pm at 1895 Lafayette, or  
contact the following people  
for these activities:

ARTISTS AND  
CRAFTSWOMEN:  
Rocky Mountain Women in  
the Arts; Barbara Portnoy-Le-  
vine, 321-7911 or Mary Alice,  
772-9139.

PERFORMERS/STAGE/  
SOUND:  
Herstory Theatre Troupe; J.  
Sarchielli, 355-5332 / Claire  
Strawn, 777-6983 or Susie  
Isaacson, 733-3694.

Win & Pres

POLITICALS:  
Big Mama Rag; 322-2010 or  
Colorado Women’s Political  
Caucus.

SERVICES/ ORGANIZATIONS  
NOW Office; 831-7707. Mary  
Ann Tavery or Maureen  
Douglas.

FOOD AND DRINK  
Coalition for Denver's Wo-  
men’s Center. Chris Ford,  
222-6057.

CARNIVAL BOOTHS:  
Any individuals or groups may  
sponsor these. Contact any of  
the above people or groups or  
Chris Ford, 222-6057.

PUBLICITY:  
BMR, 322-2010; Donna  
Good, 399-2149; Chris Ford,  
222-6057, and Claire Strawn,  
777-6983.

CHILD CARE:  
Kate Sharp, 831-9668.

TRANSPORTATION/  
CONSTRUCTION:  
Elisabeth Hannula, 733-1728  
and Lee Blaney, 573-8332.

FIRST AID/WATER/POWER/  
SANITATION:  
Creative Health Services, Jo-  
hanna Pellegrin, 321-7035.

LEGALITIES/CLEAN-UP/  
SECURITY:  
These functions were not  
assigned by press-time, but  
are in great need of volunteers  
with skills, equipment, know-  
how, energy, etc.

So...anybody know a belly-  
dancer or incredible woman  
lawyer we don’t? Call her in!  
Bands, single musicians, and  
theater will appear onstage or  
at sites on the ground,  
carnival booths will include  
Polaroid MadSnaps, Pillow  
Fights, Water and Pies!?!,  
and others to be friendly  
devised--hopefully with a  
Feminist twist. You and your  
friends or organization can  
participate, pontificate, sell  
food and drink, paint bodies,  
sing and dance, or gawk. But  
do something--bring friends -  
and pass the word!

ji, Ri Maggie Price

Photo by Babs Nash

Anne-Marie Sandquist was  
interviewed at one of her  
games by two young reporters  
from BMR, Sally Morgenstern  
and Jessica Fowler: BMR:  
Why did you start to play on a  
boy’s baseball team?  
Anne-Marie: There weren’t  
any girls’ teams and I wanted  
to play baseball.

BMR: How does your coach  
feel about your playing on the  
team?  
Anne-Marie: He was the one  
who let me play in the first  
place.

BMR: What did you want to  
do when you grow up?  
Anne-Marie: Play baseball.

BMR: How do the other  
players on the team feel about  
your playing?  
Anne-Marie: They all like me  
and don’t care if I play except  
for one guy and I can’t tell you  
his name.

BMR: Do your friends and  
neighbors care if you play on a  
boys’ team?  
Anne-Marie: My friends like  
me to play. Some of my  
neighbors don’t think I should  
be playing baseball.

Anne-Marie Goes to Bat

Anne-Marie Sandquist, a 9  
year old girl, is playing  
baseball for the Catholic  
Youth Recreation Association  
(CYRA), but it took a court  
order to do so. The CYRA,  
headed by Thomas E. Wilson  
of 850 Milwaukee St., took  
Anne-Marie off the Most  
Precious Blood Tigers team  
and forfeited two games in  
which she had played. They  
also fired coach Michael  
Ousley, who allowed her to  
play.

Following this, the Sand-  
quists went to court. Jean  
Dubossky, an American Civil  
Liberties Union member, filed  
a suit stating that Anne-Marie  
be allowed to play or the  
CYRA be unable to use  
city-owned parks. Denver Dis-  
trict Court Judge Robert  
Kingsley issued a 10-day  
restraining order on June 19  
which let her play until the  
case went to court.

The restraining order turned  
into a preliminary injunction  
on July 3, when the CYRA  
dropped its case. Anne-Marie is  
now able to participate until  
the end of this season and  
theoretically next season al-  
so. However, any other young  
woman wishing to play in the  
CYRA will also have to go  
through the court procedure.

The Sandquists are not  
satisfied with this, and an  
amended complaint has been  
filed, which will probably be  
heard this winter. While not a  
class action suit, the attor-  
neys hope for a declaratory  
statement that will affect  
more young women than  
Anne-Marie.

The real issue is not  
Anne-Marie Sandquist, but  
whether or not young women  
belong in organized team  
sports such as baseball.

One commonly repeated  
reason to keep young women  
out of team sports is that they  
are not as strong as boys.  
However, studies show that  
both sexes are equal in  
strength. Further, according  
to a Physician and Sports  
article, “Sex and the Little  
League,” women are in fact  
more advanced than men in  
bone development from ages  
8-12, the years of “little  
league” sports. There is also  
no evidence that women are  
more prone to bone breaks  
than men.

Another excuse is that  
traumatic impact, i.e. getting  
hit by a baseball, leads to  
breast cancer. Physician and  
Sports states that there is not  
any evidence to support this  
theory.

It is important that  
the sexes begin competing on an  
equal basis at an early age. It  
seems the only reason young  
women are kept out of team  
sports is male chauvinism on  
the part of directors, coaches,  
and parents.

Gay Coalition  
8-3 Fri. night

Approaching  
Lavender  
Coffee House

A very social place

Coffees - Teas - Cheeses

1122 E. 17th Ave.  
25 ¢ Contribution

REGIONAL NEWS _

Feminist Guide to Santa Fe

Hello sisters:

You may have read Linda’s
article on New Mexico Femin-
ism in the June issue of BMR.
Since Linda’s visit a lot of
exciting things have been
happening in Santa Fe that I’d
like to tell you about.

The biggest and best of all
those things is that we've
finally secured a huge new
women’s center! It’s a large
house at 220 Manhattan St.,
which will provide space for
Santa Fe women's health
services, our office and library
facilities, a large meeting
room and a place for our one
resident to live. The Women’s
Center is called the Gathering
(405-982-4716).

The Women’s Health Ser-
vices, which has been strug-
gling to survive financially,
recently received a small (very
small!) grant, and will now be
able to carry on three days a
week (W. - F. from 9-5). ~

Another recent develop-
ment in Santa Fe is the
Feminist Media Collective.
These sisters are working on a
series of films titled, “Women
of New Mexico”. For more
information about this contact
Mary or Ann at 405-982-8073.

We also have, at last, an
organized rape crisis line
which works out of the Santa
Fe Crisis Intervention Center
(listed in the phone directory).

The Santa Fe Women’s
Press has now become the

Santa Fe Community Press.
The women forming the core
of this group are heavy duty
Feminists, but are also
dedicated to Marxist-Socialist
principles. They want the
press to be a viable political
tool, available to all op-
pressed peoples and crossing
over the barriers of racial,
ethnic, sexual, economic, and
age backgrounds. For more
information call Maria, Kathy,
or Sue (405-983-1963).

Two other established pro-
jects which are currently
meeting at the Gathering are
the Women’s Prison Project
and Older Women’s Libera-
tion. The Lesbian Alliance
and a radical Feminist Rape
and Study group are in the
formative stages (ask for Pat
at the Gathering for more
information).

We welcome all of our
sisters to come for a short
visit, a long stay, or a lifetime.
There's a lot going on here and
a lot of beautiful sisters
struggling to make it happen.
In addition, Santa Fe itself is a
lovely place, surrounded by
rainbow deserts and high
mountain ranges. So please
come when you can. You will
be welcome!

Much love and energy;
Pat Aspen

Quicksilver Times/LNS/A Little Help

Albuquerque Woman Shares Feelings on Monogamy

Dear T-,

Entering into this letter has
been most trying. My mind
goes into spasms of thought
leaving me too tired to write it
down, and usually goes too
fast for me to stop it long
enough to communicate it.

I am alone for the first time
in a while. I try not to think of
it as a long time, because I
have a feeling only loneliness
knows how long time can be.
Being alone isn’t as frighten-
ing as it once was. As I have
gotten older I have developed
a few distractions that really
work, but it is more a
confusing situation than any-
thing else. Confusing for its
blatant simplicity. In most
everything else there are at
least two sides to reason out,
why, where, etc., when I am
by myself, there is nothing to
figure out - I am. I might
question do I want to be by
myself, but then I am
confronted with the thought
that maybe I have something
to learn through it. Of course
that seems most logical, but I
guess my energies feel at an
incredible stalemate. The pro-
verbial question ‘why’ is
replaced by ‘what’ a seemingly
healthier question but equally
frustrating.

We are certainly living
through one of the most
difficult periods of evolution
our species has ever encoun-
tered. It sometimes seems that
through all our genius we have
figured ourselves out to be
extinct. No longer do we have
immediate goals to be fulfilled
ritually, filially, maritally, etc.
We are here as free beings to
note our essences, but to do
what with them?

When I think specifically
about our relationships with
one another, our honest
efforts in trying to figure out
our needs and desires, when I
then think about sexual
monogamy, celibacy, polyg-
amy, I become wary about
what we are really doing.
There seems to be a total
awareness between two peo-
ple when they first begin to
learn about each other, of
each other. There are two
living patterns of ideas,
feelings, attitudes, that, for
whatever reasons, try to
merge, move together, not
necessarily compromise
themselves but rather learn to
peacefully co-exist with each
other. All of this takes time,
weeks, months, years, but
when those people have
achieved an understanding
with each other, there is a
time of respite and almost a
honeymoon of sharing and
knowing; but then after that,
what?

It seems that what happens
is that the result has been one
finding someone else to be
alone with, depending upon
what those individuals want.
It can be a time of incredible
creativity or it can be a time of
frustration. That is where
monogamy sometimes ends
and the cycle begins anew,
flavored slightly with either
the original two not being with
each other, or both trying to
maintain the peacefulness
they've found with each other,
as well as attempting to
expand it with others.

The way I have seen and
experienced the latter has
meant an incredible amount of
pain with the results being
shattering. I am going through
it now and feel angry about
the waste of energy and
denial. I guess what I believe
is that the only time we can
honestly deal with a polyga-
mous situation is only after we
are sure that we can live with
ourselves first, and one other
happily, only then do we know
honestly what we are expand-
ing. Polygamy as it happens
now is just another way for us
to be distracted from whom
we are, in my opinion a
dangerous distraction.

With love and strength and
smiles......
KAREN

10 EDITORIALS

“Photo by Babs Nash _

We Got Your Number...

In July, Big Mama Rag, who has been a member of the Denver
Sustaining Fund since that group's inception, approached the
fund with her first request ever for funding. Through the events

that followed, we found the DSF not to be radical (going to the 

roots) in its analysis of society, economics or its own functioning.
Rather, it is a reformist group whose interest is in wresting power
from that part of the system presently in control, in order to hold it
for another party of that same system, Patriarchy. The age-old
struggle of the sons against the fathers; both against the women.

As requests for funding by various groups were reviewed, it
became apparent that decision-making was based more on politics
than on need. Our politics did not fit the “radical” mold. Another
version of Animal Farm. The “radicals” have a stake, become the
reformists, become the capitalists. To wit: The “boys on the Left”
(a term borrowed from Robin Morgan) were more concerned with
whether BMR could show a profit (this information was not
sought from other groups applying) than with whether BMR would
continue to exist in this community, without DSF support. BMR
tried to point out that our purpose for existing is an evolutionary
Feminist revolution — not the amassing of money. We are
concerned with communication, not profits.

While some 50 women, representing individuals and women’s
groups with memberships of close to 1000, turned out to show the
need for and support of a women’s paper in Denver, some DSF
members questioned our base of support in the community! It's
apparent the DSF sought evidence of our support not from among
the people, not from among the women's community, but from
within its own narrow vision. Once again, the definition of reality
was that which is male-dominated and controlled.

Because the women of this community asserted themselves
and sought to influence the DSF, they were labeled Mau-Mau, both
by a member of the Tenant's Union and later by the Straight Creek
Journal. Interesting. That people supposedly dedicated to the
elimination of oppression—sexist, racist, or political—used a
term designating a Black uprising (one that should have a positive
connotation) as a put-down. It can be so only if one is in
allegiance with the system whose foundations are being
challenged.

Dealing with such bigotry is a waste of our time and a
dissipation of our energies. “We will not attempt reform of our
oppressors while women are in such need. All women. We are
telling you, yes, there are working women here, yes there are
Lesbians, yes, there are heterosexuals, yes, there are children,
yes, there are Blacks and Chicanas, yes, there are differences in
our oppression, but we are all oppressed first because we are
women, and we know it. Yes, we are looking to our own
oppression. And yes, we've got your number: a revolution which
ignores the needs of women will produce a society which ignores
the needs of women. The freedom of women is a world to be
fought for.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

RAPE
Denver Doing Enough?

Rape will always exist in a patriarchal society. It keeps a woman
in her place, both physically and mentally, by making her afraid to
act as an individual. It reinforces marriage and encourages women
to seek men as protectors. Even when a rapist has been caught,
convicted, and sentenced, a woman is still not free to move in this
society. She is still seen as property.

Women are subject to the violent abuse of their bodies and are
denied humane treatment and the equal protection of the law
every day in this city. Although the incidence of rape has
drastically increased in recent years, causing some to refer to
Denver as the “rape capital of the world,” the conviction rate for
rape remains lower than for any other crime.

The rapist mentality permeates the police, the courts and the
medical profession by forcing the victim to prove that a crime has
even taken place! She must also fit the stereotypical female role
that is determined by this patriarchy in order for her to be worthy
of the “protection” of sexist laws. It is no wonder that women
often refuse to report this crime. The socialization of women
demands that women be dependent, passive, submissive -
characteristics that invite the hostility of the rapist - and then
women are criticized for not being independent, strong and active in
reporting and prosecuting their rapists. Another example of the
insensitive, schizophrenic male mentality that runs this city.

Rape hotlines in Denver provide support for a victim after she
has been attacked and discovers that her life has been drastically
altered by the experience. They offer preventive education,
lobbying, and speakers for citizens groups. But they are funded by
federal anti-crime money and basically present no threat to the
system that they actually claim to oppose.

Police Paternalism

The police department has proven that it cannot or will not act
to effectively limit this crime. This is understandable since the
police department is a male institution. Men basically view
society as being composed of the criminal and the citizen, the
good and the bad, the good will conform and the bad will not. A

More on Page 19

POLICY STATEMENT:

LNS

“She has taken a woman lover
whatever shall we do

she has taken a woman lover
how lucky it wasn’t you” 

Gossip is one of our worst enemies. And hard to counter. But
“political criticism” — now that’s something concrete and direct
that we can handle. The episode we're referring to happened at the
July 10 meeting of the Denver Sustaining Fund (See p. ) when a
member of the Radical Information Project stated that RIP
believes that working class women do not want to relate to BMR
because of the paper’s history of “Radical Lesbianism.”

Someone finally said it out loud. Lesbianism. BMR is pleased
to take the opportunity to confront controversy head-on and stop
gossip by telling the truth. We believe this is so important that we
have decided collectively that this article would be our “policy
statement” on the subject, endorsed by the women of Big Mama
Rag — united.

To clear the air. Many responsible positions on the BMR staff
are held by women who identify themselves as Lesbians; the
collective itself is made up of women, less than 50% of whom are
Lesbians. This is not a confession; it is an affirmation. BMR has
dealt internally with this issue, and continues to do so, in an
atmosphere of respect and trust. BMR recognizes that Lesbians
are women who have affirmed a primary commitment to women,
and as such, deserve a place of respect among women. We also
recognize that at least 10% of women are Lesbians, and that our
newspaper should reflect that fact. It seems that the community's
own homophobia (fear of homosexuality) has allowed it to judge
BMR on the basis of one issue of our paper (May 74) in which we

More on Page 19

4

SUBSCRIBE

COLORADO'S
MONTHLY
WOMEN'S JOURNAL

NEWS—covering feminist activities
in the West.

THEORY—developing the ideas
and ideals of a new feminist
consciousness.

INTERVIEWS—focusing on local
feminists.

POETRY—exploring a female art
form.

HEALTH—discovering and
defending our bodies.

Individual Subs $5.00
Institutions $8.00
9 Institutions $3.00
Sample or back copy $0.40

BULK RATES AVAILABLE *

1724 GAYLORD ST.
DENVER, CO. 80206

NEWS

An Open Letter to the Women’s Movement

ED. Note: The following open letter to the Women's movement concerns a lawsuit which was brought against Robin Morgan, Random House, and Vintage Books by Lucinda Cisler because of allegations that her bibliography was plagiarized in Sisterhood is Powerful. This lawsuit is depleting the money in the Sisterhood fund which ordinarily goes to women’s groups. At the beginning of this month Big Mama Rag attempted to contact Ms. Cisler by writing to her and asking if she wished to tell us about her side of the story before we published any of the criticism concerning her action. She did not respond and so we can only print one

Sisterhood, we say, is powerful. It is springtime, and while the male politics of the sixties grow less relevant in their rhetoric to people’s lives, women move on. This is a period of rapid expansion and outreach for the Women’s Movement as Feminism finds form in new health centers, community women’s centers, women’s studies programs, rape crisis lines, and similar projects which are opening and thriving in every city in the country. As we resurrect/create a female culture, so we find ourselves continuing to walk the tightrope above a crevice of self-destruction. We live constantly with the internal threat of that “woman-hating” characteristic to which we all are socialized, infecting and ultimately destroying all we are trying to build. The often vicious internecine warfare of the Women's Movement is still a present enemy.

But SISTERHOOD IS POWERFUL; it is our strength; it is the title of an anthology that introduced thousands of women to the Women’s Movement; it is a Fund—or rather, it was a Fund. It was an access to money for women’s projects supported by all the royalties from the book Sisterhood is Powerful. The Fund was established by Robin Morgan, who compiled and edited the anthology, to provide financial support for Feminist projects and actions. There are women who have grown rich on the movement. Robin Morgan is not one of them. Rather than profiteering from Feminism, she gave an effective example of real sisterhood in creating the Fund.

It was the first such Feminist “foundation,” and for four years it has given money to a wide spectrum of women's groups. Many of you reading this will know from first-hand experience that funding has gone to women’s centers and health projects, newspapers and anti-rape groups, Lesbian groups, welfare mothers, women’s cultural projects, third world Feminist groups, abortion campaigns, and more. The book royalties to date have approximated $40,000, yes, forty thousand dollars. And there has been no male-style “politicking” in the form of dissemination—groups requested funds, and the checks went out.

Only one example: Two years ago, when the Los Angeles Feminist Self-Help Health Clinic was busted, the Sisterhood Fund sent $2,000 for their legal defense. But two months ago, when three midwives of the Santa Cruz Birth Center were busted also for “practicing medicine without a license”—which will mean a heavy court case challenging the California law against midwifery and the concept of childbirth as a disease—the Sisterhood Fund could do nothing. Because the Fund is being destroyed through a lawsuit brought by a woman, Lucinda Cisler.

Contending that the bibliography at the back of Sisterhood Is Powerful was plagiarized from her “Women: A Bibliography,” Cisler is suing Robin Morgan, Random House, and Vintage Books for a minimum of $300,000. (One might ask: Will she turn it back to the Movement as Robin Morgan did the royalties? But then, again, who ever heard of plagiarizing a bibliography? Many women all over the country compiled bibliographies before or at the same time Cisler did. Similarities in all these bibliographies abound, as anyone doing research in Women's Studies well knows—so the question is really rhetorical.) In addition, Cisler is attempting to get an injunction to stop the printing of Sisterhood is Powerful. The standard book contract requires that all legal fees in such a suit against the publisher are to be absorbed from royalties. Morgan and the fund are powerless to stop this. So, while women in Santa Cruz are fighting to survive the man’s courts, the lawyers hired by Random House are depleting our fund at the rate of approximately one hundred dollars an hour because Cisler is suing.

Robin Morgan, when first faced with the suit, offered Lucinda Cisler the opportunity to settle this within the Women’s Movement, by the establishment of a Feminist court, or by Feminist mediation. But seeking to play a male game by male rules on male turf and with a male lawyer, Cisler proceeded on her original course.

As a result, legal fees for the suit have presently depleted the fund until at least 1976, and if Cisler persists into court the fees will destroy the Fund utterly. And, if Cisler is successful in stopping the printing of Sisterhood is Powerful, the book, a substantive part of the literature of our new and growing culture and a basic women's studies text will go out of print.

Some large questions beg to be answered:

Why?

Why did Cisler wait four years to take this action?

Why did she never approach Morgan personally?

How on earth is it possible to plagiarize a bibliography?

Why is such an apparently futile action being taken when its only effect can be to destroy part of us—the Women’s Movement?

If sisterhood is powerful it must be beyond self-destructiveness. If this case cannot be terminated very soon, the fund is not merely depleted for two years but destroyed permanently, a valuable book will be lost, and another sister will have been taken to the stake by one who claimed to be our own.

We have written this open letter for two reasons: We thought the Women's Movement has had a right to know what is happening with our sister, our book, and our fund. We would also welcome support, including any ideas or statements of solidarity. They can be sent to: Kathy Barry, 2327 J Street, Sacramento, California 95816.

It’s a long way from the self- and sister-lacerating realities of today, to our Feminist vision. But Sisterhood can be powerful, if we dare make it so.

Kathleen Barry, Women’s Advocate - Mary Daly, Feminist philosopher - Adrienne Rich, Feminist poet - Joan Hoff Wilson, Feminist historian.

P.S. The Cisler bibliography is available for $.50; write to Lucinda Cisler, 165 West 91st Street, New York, New York 10024.

A. A. VILLAGE STRIPPER

1403 SO. BROADWAY DENVER, COLORADO 80210 (303) 744-9911

FURNITURE STRIPPING & ANTIQUES PAINT AND VARNISH REMOVED FROM WOOD & METAL RICHARD S. HERMAN

LET’S TRY PULLING TOGETHER FOR A CHANGE.

NWPC Cont. Evokes Response

Libby Denham

The events of the National Women’s Political Caucus conference held June 27-29 in Wichita, Kan., brought strongly to mind a Happening at a Michigan college I once attended.

In both instances, the depth of understanding of each participant was the measure of the benefit received. The good listener at the conference must have deepened her awareness of the female plight and some of the ways to alleviate it. The good speaker would have enjoyed the satisfaction of having influenced the thinking of a group.

At a national conference, such as this, no legislation can be enacted but some 600 delegates can, and did, express themselves in all the areas of the struggle for women's rights.

The ordinary functions of sleeping, eating and drinking were temporarily suspended as participants attended workshops designed to “awaken, organize and assert” women's political power, responded to intense discussions of Feminist issues from sisters from all over the country and then heard the broader issues of Women’s Liberation defined anew by Congresswoman Bella Abzug, Ms. Editor Gloria Steinem and others. A lot of mileage can be gotten from hot baths instead of hot dinners, cheese, crackers and coffee cake.

In the worst tradition of group action, the present financial plight of the National Caucus was left unresolved, unless a miraculous generosity develops among state caucuses — and soon. The national body says it should have 60 percent of its budget financed by membership dues — and suggests at least $10 per member. A determined group of “grass rooters” wants the organization to continue to distribute its political expertise for only $1 per member, citing benefits of broader membership. NWPC has been able to pay only salaries and postage for the past two months.

The better aspects of group function, I thought, were demonstrated on the day of the shooting of Mrs. Martin Luther King Sr. on the last morning of the meetings.

Chairman Sissy Farenthold made the announcement at the plenary session. The full details of the tragedy were not known and most assumed the civil rights leader's mother had also been a victim of a racially-motivated radical.

An adjournment was announced while a Caucus formed to prepare an expression of sympathy. Consensus was hampered by the earnest desire of one member to make specific reference to racially-motivated violence.

After time for discussion of this point ran out, the objecting member was given responsibility to present the statement expressing sympathy and stressing racial violence to the whole assembly. At this stage she was

More on Page 21

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

Pat Sexton, Chocolate Waters

The longest day of the year. That's what June 21 was.  
Summer Solstice. From sol - the sun, and sistere - to cause to  
stand still. And sisters from Albuquerque, Tucson, Denver, Min-  
nesota, Missouri, New York and various locations in between kept  
arriving throughout that long day, celebrating the solstice. Mak-  
ing that weekend stand still in a peaceful out-of-the-way camp-  
ing area in New Mexico.

A place marked with pine trees and swimming holes,  
streams, water fountains here and there, campfires, children, two  
hundred women with their hands joined singing: “We are one  
in the spirit, we are one in the soul, and we know that unity will  
some day unfold, and we know we are sisters by our love.” The  
sounds of women telling fortunes, reading poems to each other,  
the freedom of women together - in various stages of dress and  
undress and body paint and bare skin. The seeds of a world some-  
day guided by the power and love of women.

On the evening of the Solstice there was music and  
dancing until the sun set. Maureen shaking the tambourine. Judy  
and Sharon strumming homemade bass drums, fashioned from  
wash tubs and rope and broom handles. Gail plucking a banjo.  
Congo drums of bone and hide. Guitars, whoops. Shouts.

Chants. Dancing in circles. Dancing hand-in-hand. Alone or to-  
gether, hugging the earth with our feet and our bodies. Not the  

Photo by Pavita Miller

kind of music you'd see in a bar, but dancing that came from some  
place deep inside each woman's soul. Fishtailing, spiraling out-  
ward, sketching patterns on the sky with arms and hips and knees  
moving back and forth steadily - slow or fast but always in time  
with the music each woman heard herself.

Strong Amazon voices, singing the songs that tell  
the story of woman. Sharing our evening meals together. Bathing  
together in the small pool under the waterfall. Tai Chi, movement,  
Yoga, massage. Women with their speculums, seeing their  
cervixes for the first time. "Smile if you're a Lesbian.”

A peyote ceremony underneath the pine trees.  
Psychic Feminism; feeling in tune with the Great Goddess  
and with our Indian sisters who once roamed the ground where  
we stayed. Attempting to call down our sisters in outer space,  
sighting their spaceships. Talk of the matriarchy and of its return,  
of parthenogenesis, of Amazon culture.

Feminist astrology, learning about herbs for our own  
health. Walking arm in arm. No one can walk up to each other  
without hugging, smiling, laughing. Happiness is contagious!

Women together without men can do anything,  
‘Amazon nation here in the mountains. If only for a short while.  
A precursor of what is to come!

Photo by Chi

the society is such that we must deprive our readers of photographs which  
depict women’s bodies naturally and proudly.

Photo by Pavita

14 COLUMNS

BMR CLASSIC REPRINT

Resistance to CR

Irene Peslikis

Thinking that our man is the exception and, therefore, we are the exception among women.

Thinking that individual solutions are possible, that we don't need solidarity and a revolution for our liberation.

Thinking that Women's Liberation is therapy. This, whether or not you belong to the organization, implies that you and others can find individual solutions to problems, for this is the function of therapy. Furthermore, the statement expresses anti-woman sentiment by implying that when women get together to study and analyze their own experience it means they are sick, but when Chinese peasants or Guatemalan guerillas get together and use the identical method they are revolutionary.

Thinking that some women are smart and some women are dumb. This prevents those women who think they're smart and those women who think they're dumb from talking to each other and uniting against a common oppressor.

Thinking that because we have an education privilege and can talk in abstracts we are somehow exempt from feeling oppression directly and talking about it honestly and, therefore, think of personal experience as something low on the ladder of values (class values).

Thinking that women consent to their own oppression (or that anyone does for that matter). This is a statement which puts the blame on the oppressed group rather than on the oppressor class which ultimately uses brute force to keep the oppressed where they are. It is an anti-women and anti-people statement.

Thinking that only institutions oppress women as opposed to other people. This implies that you have not identified your enemy, for institutions are only a tool of the oppressor. When the oppressor is stopped he can no longer maintain his tools and they are rendered useless. Present institutions and our feelings about them should be analyzed in order to understand what it is we want or don't want to use in the new society.

Thinking in terms of them and us. This implies that you are setting yourself off or apart from women (the people). In doing this you neglect to recognize your own oppression and your common interests with other people, as well as your stake in revolution.

Thinking that male supremacy is only a psychological privilege with “ego” benefits as opposed to a class privilege with sexual and economic benefits. The former implies a considerable amount of individual variation among men, therefore permitting you to find an individual solution to the problem.

Thinking that the relationships among men and women are already equal and thus immersing yourself in utopian fantasies of free love in spite of the fact that the objective conditions deny it. Love between men and women, free or unfree, is millennial, not real, and if we want it we will have to struggle for it.

Thinking you can educate the people. This implies that you are educated and you will get a revolution going by teaching other people what you know. Education does not bring on revolutions; but consciousness of our own oppression and struggle might. Unfortunately, formal education and political consciousness do not usually coincide.

Even formal education in Marxism-Leninism tends to make people think that they know more than they really know. When we think of what it is that politicizes people it is not so much books or ideas but experience.

Reprinted from Voices of Women’s Liberation, Signet Books, 1970.

The problem of sexual assault is one which affects us all, whether directly or indirectly, no matter what our age, race, or life-style might be. Sexual assault is not limited to the rape of young women, but includes attacks on infants as well as senior citizens. The following information was collected from various resources. These facts are not pleasant, but it is important that we all become familiar with them.

* Denver now has the highest reported rate of forcible rape in the country (52.1 per 100,000 population — FBI Uniform Crime Report.)

* The majority of victims are single, Anglo females between the ages of 16 and 34 (71% Anglo, 15% Black, 11% Chicano — Denver Anti-Crime Council, The Crime of Rape.)

* There has been a 121% increase in the number of forcible rapes that occurred from 1960 to 1970. In 1970 a forcible rape occurred once every 14 minutes in the United States (FBI Uniform Crime Reports.)

* The true rate of rape may be three to four times higher than police figures show because of the reluctance of many women to report the crime (National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago.)

* Most rapes in Denver are stranger to stranger. In 67.1% of the cases studied between July, 1970 and June, 1972, the victim and the offender were total strangers to each other (The Crime of Rape in Denver, DACC.)

* According to the DACC report most victims (50.4%) attempted some sort of resistance, the most frequent being physically frightening off the attacker or verbally trying to dissuade him (The Crime of Rape in Denver.)

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

A Woman's Place

Janet Sergi

Unfortunately, there are two forms of rape: physical rape and mind-rape. These two man-made inventions serve as political terrorism over every woman in this patriarchy. They keep every woman in her place, that is in the shadow of every man.

Physical rape is when any man has intercourse with any woman without her total and free choice. It can and does occur at any time, in any place, by any man, friend, lover, husband, father, neighbor, or stranger.

From early childhood, every girl is socialized to forget herself and serve the interests of all males in her family. This conditioned response of submission of the female to the male sets the stage for physical rape. This background of female submission is the first and most pervasive form of mind-rape. A girl child in the patriarchy has no independent self-definition.

Thus she is the perfect prey for the rapist. She is mind-raped out of a consciousness of self.

So to go one step farther, most acts of sexual intercourse are rape: the submission of the female without free self-consciousness choice. So most men are rapists, and all women are rape victims.

Mind-rape is the permanent violation of our woman soul in the patriarchy. When we walk down the street and think of the danger of physical rape, we may avoid their occurrence, but in the process we are being thoroughly mind-raped. This second form of mind-rape occurs when we spend our psychic energy thinking about men, i.e., the rapist, instead of thinking about our woman soul, or our self-created identity. Mind-rape is the impingement of a male identity on the female consciousness.

Mind-rape is the loss of the freedom to be ourselves. Freedom for women equals our women friends, our art projects, our pets, our children, our lovers, our developing woman's culture, our poetry, and our mother earth. We are the unconscious participants in our own mind-rape when we unthinkingly look to men for our sense of self-worth, or as a source of income, or for protection, or as the only source of sexual intimacy. Mind-rape is the search for male approval.

Here is the precise point where we can begin to stop the patriarchy’s cycle of physical rape and mind-rape. If we stop looking towards men to protect us from their own institution, physical rape, we kill two birds with one stone. We take into our hands the task of education and defending ourselves against the traditional rapist on the streets. When we very consciously choose when and whom we make love to — we stop the cycle of automatic submission to males. When we develop our own culture, we begin the task of undoing the patriarchy. When we create our own self-definitions we begin to define a woman's place.

Our woman vision is of that place where the mental or physical dominance of one sex over the other is unthinkable. In a woman's place, the bodies and souls we are born with will be honored, not violated. In a woman's place, we ourselves will create who and what we are. A woman's place is simply everyone's place.

News from Around the Country

Chocolate Waters

New York-- Women on a State  
University of New York campus told us  
they were having trouble getting funds  
from the male-dominated student  
organization until they finally sent in a  
sheet of paper with one word:  
CASTRATION. Their funding came  
through. (The Monthly Extract, An  
Irregular Periodical), Vol. 3, Issue 2,  
May/June

Good

First Women’s Bank on the Way--  

“When the First Women’s Bank found  

its future headquarters in the old  
Pavilion restaurant near one of New  
York's most fashionable corners, the  
three bank presidents on the other  

three corners came forth to welcome  

the women bankers-to-be. (We wonder  
if they felt trepidation about female  
competition.) The bank already has a  
capitalization of $4 million and its  
president, Madeline McWhinney, had  
been an economist with the Federal  
Reserve Bank. Bank doors, however,  
cannot open until its charter is granted  
- which should be very soon.  

How will it differ from traditional  
male banks? Although there are a few  
male board members, the majority are  
women, and all other personnel will be  
female. The number of shares (at $20)  
will be limited, and 40,000 shares have  
been set aside for sale to low-income  
women in small quantities (even  
single shares). Efforts will be made to  
recruit the business of companies  
which have made a lot of money out of  
women, and special attention will be  
paid to financial problems and needs  
of women through counseling, loan  
practices, etc. For a prospectus sent  
to: First Women’s Bank, 1501  
Broadway, Suite 909, New York, N.Y.  
10036. (Prime Time, May, 1974)  

Piggy Prize Award-- Women, a  
Feminist news-journal from Lenox,  
Mass., awards a certified Piggy Prize in  
each issue for “willful or abusive  
offense to women.” The most recent  
award went to Mr. Paul J. Gibbons Jr.,  
President of the Southern Berkshire  
Babe Ruth League, who said,  
“Personally, I don’t care if the girls try  
out - as long as they don’t  
participate...”  

Lesbian Music Festival-- The  
Amazon Music Project of Santa Cruz,  
CA, is planning a Lesbian Music  
Festival for this month. If you write  
music, play music, or listen and dance  
to music please come. Childcare and  
housing will be provided as possible.  
For more information write to:  
Amazon Music Project, 529 Chestnut  
St., Santa Cruz, CA 95060.  

Indiana Women Protest Sex Dis-  
crimination in Bar Exam -- Women law  
students in Indiana are considering  
legal action to protest sexism in the  
July, 1973 bar examination. One  
appalling section reads: “At a  
state-owned and operated university  
in the Middle Western United States,  
Clytemnestra Toris is the only real  
thorn in the side of Mr. Strait Mouth,  
Dean of Students. Ms. (of course!)  
Toris, a career student, who recently  
has been ‘pursuing’ a graduate degree  
on ‘Mind-Leveling,’ publishes and  
distributes on Campus a newspaper  
‘devoted to the elimination of all men.’  
Despite many counseling sessions,  
she insists on calling the newspaper  
‘The Daily Dildo.’ The U.S.  
Commission on Civil Rights is  
reportedly “looking into the charge.”  
(The Spokeswoman, June 15, 1974)  

Not Just A Hole in One! Straight  
women beware of men bearing a  
Peacock Redi-wet Hygienically Lubri-  
cated prophylactic. The FDA seized  
eight cases (containing 13,824 pro-  
phylactics) because they had holes in  
them.  

How Confidential Are Your Medical  
Records? If you ever signed a form  
authorizing an insurance company to  
have access to your doctor or  
hospitalization records, chances are  
that the information may be on file  
with the Medical Information Bureau.  
The MIB, reportedly a medical CIA  
which keeps files on 13 million  
Americans for its 760-member insur-  
ance companies. So if you let one  
company have your records - all 760  
may have them. “If by doctor error or  
oversight or if a condition no longer  
exists, your rates will be higher than  
they should be or you may be refused  
health insurance altogether.” Recom-  
mendations to reduce the impact of  
the MIB are now before the Senate  
Consumer Subcommittee. (From  
“How Confidential are Your Medical  
Records?” by Sidney Wolf, M.D. as  
reported in Marin Women’s News  
Journal, June, 1974)  

Women and Health  

Pat Sexton  

Itching, scratching, burning... va-  
ginal infections are a pretty common  
happening for most women. Not only  
are they physically irritating, but they  
can also cause premature bankruptcy  
if you have to plunk down $25 for a  
check-up and $7 for a prescription  
every time they come up. All the more  
reason to learn to diagnose and cure  
them yourself! The following informa-  
tion is designed to familiarize you with  
the three most serious infections (not  
including syphilis and gonorrhea,  
which are serious!), their diagnosis  
and ways of curing them (both through  
prescribed medicine and so-called  
“home-remedies”).  

In order to diagnose your own  
infection you will have to have a few  
items: a speculum (the instrument a  
gynecologist uses to spread open the  
walls of the vagina for a look inside;  
get one through your local self-health  
clinic or through a medical supply  
house), a mirror, a flashlight, some  
clean cotton swabs, a glass slide (or  
you can use the mirror’s surface),  
and... if you really want to get  
technical, you can have a microscope  
on hand.  

Taking the speculum in one hand,  
holding the bills closed, and spread-  
ing the lips of the labia with the other,  
slowly insert the bills into the vagina.  
If this is hard or uncomfortable put a  
little K-Y surgical jelly on the blades  
(NOT Vaseline which can alter the  
environment of the vagina and allow  
infections to occur).  

Using the Speculum  

After the blades are in, turn the  
speculum so that the handle is facing  
up. Now find the thumb press lever  
and push it in and down until you hear  
it click. The speculum will then be  
open. Using the mirror with one hand  
and flashing the light on the mirror  
with the other, so that light is  
reflected into the vagina, you can now  
see the interior of the vagina.  

Using one of the cotton swabs,  
scrape off some of the secretion  
inside. By smearing this onto a slide  
or the mirror’s surface, you will be  
able to gauge the texture, color, and  
consistency of the secretion and  
hopefully tell what type of infection  
you have.  

Let’s start with a description of what  
normal mucus looks like. Your normal  

discharge will be transparent or  
slightly milky. When it is dry it may  
look yellow. This discharge causes no  
inflammation or irritation and varies in  

amount throughout your cycle. It will  
either have an inoffensive smell or no  
smell at all. The normal vagina is acid  
and contains many types of bacteria  
which keep out harmful germs. If you  
douche too much or use vaginal  
sprays and deodorants, these can  
destroy the bacteria and upset the  
natural balance of the vagina.  

Now for the infections. We'll start  
with:  
1. Yeast - fungus, monilia, or candida.  

Symptoms: You will find itching  
and inflammation of the vulva and  
outer vagina, which will just about  
drive you nuts! The discharge, when  
spread out on the slide, may be light  
or very heavy and thick like cottage  
cheese and stringy (this is more  
common) and will smell rather yeasty,  
like baking bread. There will be white  
patches of the yeast on the walls of  
the vagina, and if you scrape them off,  

there will be red raw patches  
underneath.  
Treatment: In order to relieve the  

itching on the outside, you can paint  
the whole area with gentian violet. It's  
a mess but it relieves the pain. The  
best and fastest way to get rid of yeast  
is by using Mycostatin suppositories,  
but these can only be obtained with a  
prescription (which means you will  
have to go to a doctor, who will  
probably insist that he check you over  
before he writes the prescription,  
therefore costing you mucho bread). If  
you have any friends who are doctors  
or druggists, have them get it for you.  
The suppositories should be inserted  
in the morning and at night for a full  

ten days to make sure that you  

completely get rid of the infection.  
Other Remedies  

There is also a jelly called Propion  
Gel that you can put in once a day with  
an applicator. If the infection is not  
large you can sometimes cure it by  
putting in a tablespoon of plain yogurt  
(the type you can buy at the market). I  
have also heard (although not  
personally tried) that tea douche made  
from two herbs - osha root and golden  
seal - will sometimes completely cure  
a yeast infection. I would be interested  
in hearing from other sisters about  
other herbal remedies.  

Circumstances that can make yeast  
infections easier to get:  

1. Diabetes - causes sugar in the  
urine and extra carbohydrates in the  
vaginal walls, both of which provide  
good food for the yeast and help it to  
grow,  

2. Antibiotics - when used anywhere  
in the body to fight infection, they  
also kill the bacteria in the vagina.  

3. Pregnancy, birth control pills,  
bad diet, obesity.  

7. Wearing nylon underwear keeps  
the vulval area warm and moist and  
yeast love warmth!  

ED. Note: See next month's column for  
symptoms and treatment of Trichomonas and  
non-specific vaginitis.  

Pat Sexton is a free-lance writer from New Mexico. She has no  
B.S., M.S., Ph.D., or any other such documents to make her real.  
However, she learned a lot at the San Francisco Women’s Health  
Clinic, and has been learning and sharing it all with her sisters  
ever since.

16 POETRY _

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

MINNIE WOMAN

In 5th grade the boys went to the gym  
and the girls went to the library  

when the librarian opened the door  

I realized it was the first time  

I'd ever seen her smile  

Woman of white, the school nurse,  
introduced the film we were about to see  
on the facts of life  

which turned out to be a cartoon  

called the “Story of Menstruation”  
starring Minnie Mouse  

The mouse came on, her tail twitching, nervously,  
a 40 piece orchestra accompanied Minnie  

through what she called the “Beautiful Moment”  
and I twitched thinking about my anemia  

‘Everything on the screen was enlarged  

so we could understand it  

but the distortion confused me  

til I wasn’t certain which was the egg  

and which was the kotex.  

I had difficulty with Minnie’s language too  
which made it hard to know where to laugh  
and I tapped my shoes anticipating lunch  
while the mouse told all she knew  

about being a woman  

When it was over the nurse came out again  
and said the egg catchers were available  

in her office:  

never having anything wrong with me  

I'd never been to her office  

She asked if there were any questions  

and it was silent til the bell rang  

-Lallo  
(first appeared in New York Quarterly)  

A WOMAN WITH ME  

Rain on me with your mouth  
As soft and winning as my favorite Scotch  
I have known you many times before sweet love  
A woman nestled against my arm  
A woman twitching at the cheek for want of  
touching me  
A woman with her legs around me—  
clutched so tight and looking at me with her toes,  
Some small respite from the world of men  
A woman  
Her eyes as bright as sparklers  
Her loves as warm and different as a patchwork quilt  
Let me sew myself into your hair  
Comfort you and listen to our noses pressed together  
They sound like us  
They sound like women  
Together many times  
Before and now and sometime in the future  
She will always be a woman  
With me  
I will always have a woman  
With me  

-Chocolate Waters  

SONGS FOR DELIUS*  

When does blindness have its turn?  
When do eyes used to seeing stretch marks on stomachs  
isolated hairs on nipples  
pick out their benchmarks  
from black landscape  
behind closed eyelids  
and give hurt a chance at its own joy?  
When?  

Tell me about the when?  
It lurked in the corner  
then moved over the edge of today  
holding hands with a hammer in a sea of nails.  
Every time I threaten to play carpenter  
and rebuild tomorrow  
when comes and peeks over the roof  
and through the floor beams.  
Its grimace scares away the ark  
and washes me on shore with no people.  

My self is seeking the event of its birth.  
The fractured egg nebula  
can no longer hide  
in pubic hair  
or inward stare  
I am not too old to learn about the Phoenix.  

The I/you/us/them split is healing.  
The salve lies within my own juices  
and I am drinking at my own well  
prefiguring, configuring the celebration:  
a female rite  

which the whole universe is invited to witness.  
And I am writing the songs  

for I have also found my voice  

and will sing to you.  

“Delius was a blind composer who wrote music in the form  
of tone poems.  

- Sandia -

POETRY

HORSES

I want to go to Elitch Gardens  
and ride all the rides  
I want to sing to a bird  

I want to lie in the grass on  
the side of a mountain and  
be covered with green leaves  
Do children laugh when they eat Cheerios?  

What is the story you were going  
to read to me tonight?  
Is it the one I taught to you?  

Who said ears are for hearing?  

We are so naive. We who have no  
expectations  

Will you hold my hand while I cry.  

Let's go to the airport and buy insurance  
We can eat wildflowers again  

We can speak to the clouds in a very firm voice  
You dirty clouds! . .  

or something like that.  

I want to see you tonight the  
merry-go-round goes 100 slow  
I want someone to give this poem to  

Someone who knows what I know  
Someone who likes to run upwind  

Someone who eats cheese  
Someone who loves old ladies  

THIS IS FOR YOU, ANNA DOUGLAS  

It was a very busy day and I didn’t brush my teeth or really wake up  
so I ran my fingers through my hair  
swore deadly curses under my breath  
held my head in misery  

'til you  
an exotic Belladonna  
crowned me with your spirited laugh  

Someone who sprinkles their yard at night and nestled me in your steady, tranquil gaze.  

Someone who sees highways in the palm of my hand  
Someone who prays to the wheatfields of Kansas while  

driving home from nowhere  
Someone who sees eternity in the mirror.  

I want a hamburger garden with a border of buns  
A turtle who does stand-up jokes  

A stage for the turtle and me  

A closet of tuxedos  

A little boy with big ears  

Is everyone as old as I am?  

Who asks these questions?  

Am I hearing them correctly?  

Do I have the right to understand?  
Do I play cards as much as I'd like?  

I want a new deck  

I want to be a crowd at a rodeo  
and cheer for the bucking bronco  

Here, please take this meager poet’s offering,  
a spindly receipt of our friendship  
and view it if there is ever any doubt  
that you are really  
loved.  

~Angela Wilson  

DIASPORA  

Pray for the children  
home in the streets  
card hustlers/smooth talkers  
at the age of nine  
sing loud hallelujahs in these silent halls  
and make the reverend shiver and pray.  

I want to whisper secrets to a large tree Judgment day is here and no one  

Number 7 was a Volkswagen  

I ate French donuts in Greenwich  
Village every night for a month  

Stars are patient  

I want to be new  
I want to meet you again  
I want to write from right to left  
noom eht ta tniugs ot tnaw I  
I want to put a cannon to my head  
and pull the trigger  

I want my scars to heal  
I want to forget my memories  
I want a drink of water  

I want to be a birthday party  
I want to know when it starts  

I want another turn.  
-Mary Britt  

Feminist  

=== S$  
Deadline Sept. 15 (Loree sis  
—— ? ——o  

$1 per poem - $10 prize  

Sponsored by Big Mama Rag  

will be the first to meet our maker.  
-Angela Wilson  

SOLSTICE  

In the forest the women come and go  
speaking of our mother, Sappho.  
Speaking of them all.  

Speaking of woman, the beginning and end,  
woman, the ever continuing force of life.  

Speaking of Lilith and Cleopatra; the flaming Joan;  
Madame Curie and Lucy Stone.  
Speaking of them all.  

Woman, the regenerative. Balanced in swaying harmony  
between mother and daughter.  
Rocking out the phoenix.  

“I am the phoenix.” Yes sister,  
you are the phoenix.  
Speaking of them all.  

The phoenix of the earth.  

The phoenix of woman.  

The phoenix of life force; all that is feminine.  
Rocking, rocking it out.  

Moving the ashes.  

Joan, we have come to regenerate you.  

In the forest of the mother,  

In the power of our lives,  

In the fire of the night,  

Wrapped close to death, the wings unfold  
And the phoenix rises,  

rises  

Speaking of them all.  

-Linda Fowler

4 to

LEGISLATION

From Page 7

A defendant has the constitutional
right to try to impeach a witness on
specific statements. But the rights of
the defendant would not be affected,
according to Wood. Although Iowa
anticipates a constitutional challenge
on its in-chambers hearings provision
in rape cases, Wood believes that
there is no denial of a defendant's
rights since a judge can move certain
proceedings into chambers anyway.

- Marriage No Excuse -

The third proposal is to redefine the
term “spouse” as it is used in
Colorado’s rape and sexual assault
statutes. The current law denies a
woman the equal protection of rape
and sexual assault laws if the
perpetrator happens to be her husband
and even though she may be living
apart from him.

There have been two suggested
alternative proposals to change this
law. One would simply delete the
words “not his spouse” wherever they
appear in the statutes. This would
make a rape or sexual assault a proper
charge in any case. The other
alternative would define the word
“spouse” in such a way as to exclude
from the definitivity a person living
separate and apart from the perpetra-
tor.

“There is no reason that if someone
marries, they should lose the protec-
tion of the law,” says Wood.

The fourth proposal would allow
evidence into a rape or sexual assault
case that would show a common plan,
scheme, design, motive as with the
rapist who consistently leaves identi-
cal evidence such as fingerprints or
exhibits a common behavior with each
victim. Wood says that by case law in
Colorado it appears to be the general

principle that in any criminal
proceedings except rape or sexual
assault, may seek to introduce
evidence linking the defendant to the
case by establishing that, on other
occasions, the defendant acted within
a pattern.

Such evidence may be prejudicial
but it is difficult to understand why it
would be any more prejudicial in rape
cases than in robberies and homicides.
Again, continues Wood, there is no
reason for special treatment for rape
defendants.

Victim Compensation

The fifth proposal provides for
compensation for rape victims. The
state would finance the costs of
emergency and follow-up treatment
for victims of such violent crimes as
rape, assault, homicide and robbery.
Allowable costs would include abor-
tion, pregnancy, childbirth, and
psychiatric treatment. Burial costs for
homicide victims would be covered.

This proposal may be the most
controversial, admits Wood, and will
probably undergo major change in the
legislature. To help reduce the
possibility of fraud, state financial
assistance would be contingent upon
the victim’s cooperation with the
evidence of the bona fides of the
charge. Originally this proposal read
that the victim had to cooperate in the
apprehension and prosecution, if any,
of the alleged offender or offenders. It
was changed due to a suggestion
made by Pam Gleason, a member of
the Colorado Democratic Women’s
Caucus, that women should not be
forced to subject themselves to the
cross-examination tactics currently
being used by defense counsel in
court in order to receive the medical
and psychiatric care that they may
need.

Some discussion of this proposal
both at the District Attorney's office
where the proposals were initially
made public and at a recent meeting of
the Denver Coalition of Sexual Assault
centered around making the convicted
offender work while being held in
prison receiving a decent wage to
reimburse the victim (or the State) for
the expenses resulting from his crime,
and his family while he is in prison
that must often receive welfare while
he is being held.

Ms. Gleason also proposed that the
word “rape” be abolished since rape is
defined by penetration of a penis into
a vagina it is a crime that applies only
to women as victims and is a sexist
term. Rape is not a sex crime, she
continues, but a hostility crime.
Non-penile penetration is still rape
although it is categorized as deviant
sexual intercourse and is considered a
class 4 felony with a shorter sentence
than rape which is a class 3 felony.
Ms. Gleason feels that any kind of
forced genital contact on either side
constitutes a sexual assault.

The D.A.’s office will support
changing and deleting the word “rape”
from statutes and replacing it with
“sexual assault” with various degrees.
Although it would only be calling a
rose by another name, it would still be
a better name, says Pam Gleason. The
humiliation and trauma connected to
the word rape and aimed at the victim
of the crime would hopefully be
lessened.

This legislation is not in final form,
says Wood. Draft copies of it are being
circulated for recommendations from
anyone who is interested.

HELP...

From Page 1

hurried, unsympathetic or simply
don't think to tell a woman that the
drug may not be safe. Women are
often not advised that they must have
a follow-up Venereal Disease test a
month after the assault. Since
do unnecessary procedures or intro-
duce foreign objects into the uterus
because of the increased possibility of
infection, a doctor prefers to have the
woman wait 42 days to determine if
she is pregnant at which time she
could terminate the pregnancy.

The Legislative Task Force is
working on legislation proposed by
the Denver District Attorney’s office
dealing with the reform or abolition of
particular rape laws. Members of the
coalition are being encouraged to
register as lobbyists with the
Secretary of State either as a member
of the coalition or as a private citizen
to help get the legislation passed in
the next session of the state
legislature.

A purpose of the coalition has been
stated by Dr. Saltzman: “We're not
going to change people and we're not
going to change attitudes. We may get
some minor behavioral changes and
get the support of people in there
without too much resentment.”

ANTI-CRIME COMMISSION -

The Denver Anti-Crime Commission
has funded (through the Law
Enforcement Assistance Administration - LEAA) the Southeast Denver -
Neighborhood Services Bureau, the
Violence Research Unit at Denver
General and the District Attorney’s
Priority Prosecution Program which
gives that office “added manpower to
do a more thorough investigation of
major crimes including rape and put
more emphasis on rape investigation
than on conviction,” according to
Dave Shepard of the Anti-Crime
Commission.

In-service training for the Denver
Police Department has been funded
but the specific program has not been
completely developed. The purpose of
the training, which will include
community input, will be to (hopefully)
increase the sensitivity of the line
officers to the rape victim and to his
own prejudices about the victims.

The Eastside Action Center and the
Westside Action Center have been
funded for education, know your
neighbor programs and counseling
programs. The emphasis at the
Westside Action Center will be on
victim counseling, according to Sandy
Johnson a staff member at the Center
located at 1312 Santa Fe Drive.

There is a tentative victim support
program to expand the services of the
Visiting Nurse Service at Denver
General Hospital that has yet to be
funded.

in Colorado and doctors don’t like to

WOMEN AGAINST RAPE

WAR (Women Against Rape) has
been formed as a result of the
self-protection classes for women
offered through the Aurora Police
Department. The present goal of the
group, according to Jackie Mitchell, a
graduate of the class, is to present a
petition concerning legislation on the
treatment for convicted rapists to
state legislators.

The petition demands that rape
statutes be changed from a criminal
status to a mental disorder status.
First offenders, according to Ms.
Mitchell, would be treated until cured.
Offenders who have been convicted
more than once would have to remain
in the facility and receive treatment
commensurate with the offense.

Ms. Mitchell cites the study done by
Menachem Amir published in his book
Patterns in Forcible Rape which
concludes that rape is a common form
of learned behavior and is also a
“mental thing.” So instead of being
put into a prison where the offender
receives practically no treatment
whatsoever and usually comes out
hating women even more than before
he should be treated. Ms. Mitchell
would also like to see the government
stop wasting money on projects
studying the perspiration of the
Aborigine and start spending money
on mental health at places like the
state hospital which is understaffed
and underpaid.

She would like to see the federal
government establish one institution
in the U.S. to handle all rapists in the
country and find out what is causing
rape and cure it.

WAR intends to contact NOW for
their support of the petition and will
be working with the Denver Coalition
on Sexual Assault. WAR will be
gathering signatures for the petition
from August 15 through August 31st at all
major shopping areas and will then
send the signatures and petitions to
every state representative in Colorado.

AURORA POLICE

The next class of Self Protection for
Women will begin on September 5th at
the Crawford Elementary School at
17th and Florence in Aurora on

“Knife Hand” Stab — Use it like a
knife, into the throat or eyes.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

Monday nights from 7 to 9.

The class is limited to 100 women
and continues seven weeks. A woman
may enter at any time. Guest speakers
from the Denver District Attorney's
office, mental health agencies, ex-
perts on home security, a rape victim,
and representatives from groups con-
cerned with the problem of rape will
speak. No males are allowed in the
class - not even husbands.

To secure a place in the class a
woman should call 366-1511 and ask
for Mary Perrott.

SOUTHEAST DENVER

The only victimization program in
Denver is at the Southeast Denver
Neighborhood Services Bureau
(SEDNSB). The bureau is funded
through the Denver Anti-Crime Coun-
cil’s High Impact Program.

The SEDNSB bureau deals primarily
with youthful offenders and youth-
oriented planning for the southeast
area along with offering support and
counseling programs for victims as
well as to provide general public
education and organization for the
prevention of victimization. The
efforts of public education are
directed primarily towards Capitol Hill
since it has the highest crime rate in
the city.

Dr. Katherine Saltzman is the
Victimization Coordinator who has
been instrumental in the formation of
the 24-hour crisis line. “The victim has
been ignored while the offender has
gotten all the attention and funded
programs as a rule up to now.”

According to Mary Stage, also of
SEDNSB, the hotline has a trained
volunteer or a staff counselor
constantly available. “We provide
referrals and have professional psy-
chiatric people available to those who
need help.”

Part of the victimization program
also deals with assaults on senior
citizens. If an elderly woman is
attacked it can literally result in her
death. Broken bones, inability to get
to the store and medical expenses can
drastically change and even ruin a
woman’s life.

Anyone who would like to volunteer
to work at the bureau should call
321-8192.

More on Page 22

EDITORIALS —

__Denver Doing Enough? |

From Page 10

A policeman at one of the department's storefronts said that the two
most disgusting crimes to an officer are child molestation and
rape. In both “helpless” people are concerned. It is easy for them
to see the effect of assault on a child, but for a woman to be raped
is something a woman is expected to bear.

If the Denver Police Department would like to improve its image
with the women’s community in Denver they will have to become
aware of their own sexist attitudes towards women. There is a hell
of a difference between what the police say it believes and what it
actually does. There have been reports from rape victims that a
married detective on the Sex Detail has visited them at their
homes on unofficial business - showing up at their front doors
complete with a bottle of wine to discuss some of the heavier
aspects of rape.

If the detail needs some consciousness-raising I suggest that
they attend some groups being organized by this paper, and not
invite themselves to the homes of rape victims.

Women do not need the “protection” of men whether through
law enforcement agencies (defenders of the morals of “good”
women) or through scare tactics for women to stay off the streets
at night or to avoid wearing attractive clothes.

We are not second-class citizens. We will not be clinging,
cringing, terrified females. We will not be degraded because we
are women. We will be free. We are not the property of men that
needs to be protected and revenged. As long as women are treated
as property in this society its institutions will perpetuate this
attitude.

The Coalition
The Coalition on Sexual Assault is rapidly dissipating into a
do-nothing, say-nothing group due to an exodus (purge?) of
women who want to take more radical steps towards dealing with
rape.

It seems that many in the coalition are worried about its
credibility (read: image) in the Denver professional community of
law enforcement and treatment, etc. There are endless ways to
help people change their attitudes towards rape, but the coalition
is working on just a very few.

The reason for a Coalition, it seems, is to provide a point for
different energies, perspectives, ideas to work together for a
common purpose. It is unfair and typically “male” to create a
structure that allows a few at the top to make decisions affecting
the whole “for the good of the company.”

The coalition does not need to support men to get things done.
More could be accomplished if the Coalition would forget about
working in the system exclusively, and think about women, their
positions in this society, and the part rape plays in that
subjugation.

The D.A.

The District Attorney's booklet on rape is slick and reminds all
of its readers that “the best way to protect your body is by using
your head.” What it really says is the best way to remain “unde-
filed” is to stay home behind locked doors, and keep your mind
behind locked doors. Yet statistics indicate there is a 50-50
chance that if you are attacked it will be in your home behind your
locked doors.

Rape isn’t a crime of passion. It is a crime of hate and political
terrorism against women. It is the ultimate manifestation of the
colonization of men over women. Rape is not the isolated behavior
of a few sick men. Psychological profiles indicate that the typical
rapist is the boy next door. Rape will exist until our bodies are
truly our own, until men cannot claim to own women.

Lesbian Baiting!

From Page 10

exceeded 10% coverage of the subject. (The actual percentage of
that issue touching on the topic of Lesbianism was only 28%!)
Frankly, this reminds us of labor union history during which any
“communist” content in a paper immediately labelled the paper an
organ of the “international communist conspiracy,” and subjected
it to emotional red-baiting. Radicals, especially, should know
better than to attempt “Lesbian-baiting” in this community.

Does BMR relate to working class women and their concerns?
We have considered this question ourselves. The last issue of
BMR contained two lead stories: “Chicanas Fight Welfare
Injustices,” “Minority Task Force on Prisons,” as well as a
reporting of the conference of Coalition of Labor Union Women,
and an editorial on the Talmadge Amendment (regarding welfare).
The July issue also contained poetry, TV reviews, theory, etc.,
which are of interest to any women. We think it is patronizing to
assume that working class women aren’t interested in anything
but “bread and butter” issues.

Does the Lesbian content of BMR alienate working class
women? It may alienate some. It may attract others. The point is
that sexism is as rampant in the working class as it is in the ruling
class, and that no Feminist paper will ignore or cater to people’s
prejudice against Lesbians, in order to attract more readership.
We have said goodbye to the dishonesty of hiding our personal
and political lives to “organize the people.” We want a newspaper
which will attract a large number of women because it has
something to offer them.

People read the daily papers because those papers offer
information and services, even though readers may not agree with
the paper's editorial policy. It is the nature of editorials to be
controversial, but we do not insist that our readers’ politics align
with ours. We will continue to express our opinions and analysis in
the paper without compromise.

We assume that our readership has the intelligence and
open-mindedness to distinguish opinions from reporting, and we
are working towards making that distinction clearer. We will
continue to report and comment on topics concerning women —
health, education, sexuality, children, self-defense, Lesbianism,
and any other subject that women in this community care about.

Enough said. We take our work seriously. Let's get on with it.

The BMR Collective

1 Common Woman, poems by Judy Grahn.
2 Lesbian Woman, Del Martin and Phyllis Lyon, Bantam Books, New York, 1972, p.t.
: is Pal

~ ad = fe a

LAVENDER WOMAN

OUR LESBIAN-FEMINIST NEWSPAPER.

* 1 year $4.00

® institutions $8.00

° Single issue 65¢

° Free to sisters in prison

or mental hospitals.
send to: LAVENDER WOMAN

P.O. BOX 60206
Chicago, IL 60660

RIP BOOKSTORE
737 E. 17th Ave.
LARGE WE ASSOCIATE SECTION
% ON GAY LIBERATION,

Cuba Coad, VIETNAM, MARXISM,
and ANARCHISM OF U.S. IMPERIALISM,

ALL BOOKS 20% OFF AT
ALL TUES

Saturday (2-9)

19

B.S. Sugar

From Page 5

change... that's what we try to
do and that's the thing we
think about... but right now,
most of the things we do are,
as you put it, designed not to
offend because when you
offend somebody, you've lost
them right there, we feel, and
if you don’t offend them, then
you have a chance to get in
there and tell them your side
of the story.

BMR: What is your ultimate
goal for yourselves or your
music? What would you like to
see happen?

SYLVIA: I personally would
like to see the stuff that we
write be out front.

SHARON: That is our ulti-
mate thing... to get our own
music across to people with a
message... you were talking
about the Feminist thing and I
want to make one thing
perfectly clear. What I want to
do is to make it as a woman
and to be an example for other
women to be able to do the
same thing I did - without
having to sell themselves as a
woman... because like they
(Sylvia and Bev) said, it was
an advantage at one time...
you know, I was there up front
playing the tambourine, smil-
ing at people and singing one
me I wasn't conscious of
d mie to be an “example for
women to be proud of, to feel
good about... to raise up their
heads and see that it can be
done, but in a way that you
don't have to sell yourself as a
woman.

Because the majority of the
music B.S. Sugar & Co. has
written is not yet legally
protected, it is not being
performed as part of their act.
One song, Leave My Children
Alone, makes a strong state-
ment, calling for individual
freedom from cultural stereo-
types:

“Leave my children alone.
Let 'em grow now.

Leave my children alone.
Don't try to change them into
your OWN ways,

Leave my children alone.

The content of this interview
has been necessarily abridged
because of space limitations.
Nothing, however, has been
taken out of context.

B.S. Sugar & Co. is appearing
through Aug. 31st at Christopher’s in the Capital Plaza Inn,
Denver.

Alicia’s

Mexican Restaurant

278 Downing 777-9904
“Good Home Made Food”

UIE et ring) ee

Caldwell Speaks Out on Rape

The opinions expressed here are those
of Ann Caldwell, not those of the
Minority Hotline or the Coalition on
Sexual Assault, both of which Ms.
Caldwell is a member.

Minority women don't get such a
good shake from the police. There is a
cavalier attitude toward a rape report
from a minority, which is part of the
mass mental block that minority
people are promiscuous.

There is no privacy in reporting a
rape downtown. Snide comments are
made. The attitude of a detective on
the Sex Assault Detail is that it’s
always the woman’s fault.

There was a string of rapes reported
in my neighborhood. The rapist had
the same habit in every assault. The
police didn’t put any special patrol
cars or anything to try to catch this
guy, so the husbands in the area had to
take off work and form a vigilante
committee to catch him. Well - that’s
what it took for the police to do
something. They finally caught a 17
year old boy in the act. But he was a
juvenile, so who knows what happened
to him? He’s probably out on the
streets again.

If a woman is a prostitute, that is still
her own body. It’s hard to get that
through to the police. The hotline at
High Street gets calls from women
who really need to talk to someone.
Often their husbands cause such
problems for them that I don’t see how
they can stand it. A husband often

so she can't leave the house. The
woman is blamed for the rape. The
husband’s attitude is that you must
have done something to cause it. But
this is bullshit. Old women get raped,
young children get raped. In the whole
structure of this society, women are
put down, treated like sex objects. The
rapist degrades a woman to such a
point that he may murder her.

Minority women have unique
problems that women who are in NOW
(National Organization for Women)
don’t have. But there are at least some
minority women represented in rape
action groups.

CLASSIFIED ADS

Low cost auto service with your
Satisfaction in mind. 744-6860.
Michael Canon.

Gay Parents’ Raps - need to talk
to another gay parent? Call David
Gunther before 10 am. 831-6264.
House Painting - Inside or out-
side. Very reasonable rates. Call
744-3807. Ask for Chocolate.
Lavender Jane - Still a few copies
available through the BMR office.
322-2010.

People interested in sharing the
cost of using art models -
Contact Becky. 623-3423.

To Live In - need woman to
supervise my two daughters (11 &
13); do cooking, help with
housework. Some weekend
work. Room and board provided.
Arrangements negotiable. Non-
swinger. 771-8135.

Want to share home—Park Hill
area. Have - and 2 teenage
daughters - $200 maximum.
289-1914.

+

Some people see the rape problem
in terms of supply and demand. They
say that there would be no rape
problem if there were a red light
district for prostitutes. But the rapist
doesn’t pay a woman he assaults. He
wouldn’t go within a thousand miles
of a prostitute. He gets a kick out of
raping.

I hope I haven't stepped on
anybody's toes and if I have, to hell
with it. I stay up at night mad when
everyone else is sleeping.

Rape Research

Dr. Carolyn Hursch is a co-director
of a research project at the Violence
Research Unit, a division of Psychiatric
Services at Denver General
Hospital. The project is gathering
interviews of women who have been
raped and of women who have
successfully resisted sexual assault.

The interview is completely confi-
dential. A woman may use an
assumed name or just an initial. The
experience of any woman, no matter
how long ago it was that she was
attacked, is needed for the research.
The assault “isn’t something that a
woman forgets. Sometimes it’s easier
to talk as time passes,” says Dr.
Hursch.

A woman need not have reported her

rape to take part in an interview. This
research, when completed, will
hopefully provide a means toward
victim support, offender evaluation
and treatment. It may reveal more
successful means of resisting a rape
and show approaches of rapists.

Dr. Hursch is critical of the Denver
Police Department: “there is not as
comprehensive a preventive approach
as other cities have with rape.
Policewomen are not used as decoys.
The Police Department is not going
out after the problem.”

Any woman who would like to take
part in the research can call 623-8252.

These are the answers to last month’s crossword
puzzle.

Help Services

ABORTION COUNSELING
Alternatives, Inc.

Creative Health Services
Ministerial Council
Abortion Referral and
Counseling Service
Boulder Valley Clinic

BIRTH CONTROL
Planned Parenthood

COMMUNICATION
Big Mama Rag
Institute Mt. West

COMMUNITY RESOURCES
Capital Hill Tenants Union

St. Andrews Church
Rape Line
S.E. Denver Neighbor-
hood Services
Boulder Gay Lib.

Denver Gay Coalition

EMPLOYMENT
Better Jobs for Women
Womanpower

HEALTH SERVICES

Colo. Gen. Hosp. Clinics
Creative Health Services
Colo. Springs Women’s

1400 Lafayette
2346 Broadway

2030 E. 20th Ave.

1724 Gaylord
2096 Emerson

1460 Pennsylvania
Common Market Food Coop 1100 Champa
2015 Glenarm

1450 Pennsylvania

1545 Tremont
2475 Broadway #12
Boulder

4200 E. 5th Ave.
4645 E. Colfax

1345 Spruce St.,
Boulder
4645 E. Colfax

449-6565
321-0567
787-4442

255-2008
442-5160

388-4777

322-2010
573-6394

825-2329
893-3430
255-9775

321-8194
443-2211

x8567
778-6536

244-4189
442-5468

394-8581
321-0567

Health 409 E. Fontanero ~

Denver Metro Health Clinic 645 Bannock

1304 Elati

999 Alpine, Boulder
2346 Broadway

Hip Health Center
People’s Clinic

Boulder Valley Clinic
LEGAL SERVICES

Big Mama Rag
LITERATURE

Woman's Voice Bookstore

WOMEN’S GROUPS
Boulder Women's Center

1724 Gaylord

673 S. Pearl
Radical Information Project 737 E. 17th

574-6666

222-3344
449-6050
442-5160

322-2010

733-1178
825-7413

9th & Arapahoe

Ft. Collins Women’s Center 629 Howes St.

Women in Transition
Lesbian Resource Center
CU Women’s Lib. Coalition

National Organization for
Women
Women in Community Service
Denver Women’s Resource
Center
Women’s Resource Center,

DU

Rocky Mountain Women in
the Arts has been meeting
every Tues. at 8 pm at 1895
Lafayette. The new meeting
schedule is now every other
Tues. (same location). Board
meetings will be held one
week and speakers and
performers will be presented
the next. (See Calendar of
Events) Call Barb Portnoy-Levine at 321-7911 for further
information.

Artists and craftswomen in-
terested in showing their work
at the First Annual Women’s
Festival on Aug. 25 contact
Barb or Mary Alice at
831-9668.

A seminar on “Sexuality and
the Human Community” will
be held Aug. 16 at 7:30 pm
and Aug. 17 at 8:30 am at the
Iliff School of Theology
(lounge), 2201 S. University
Blvd. A $10 registration fee
will be required and interested
people should contact Paul
Murphy at 770-4794 by Aug.
15. The seminar is open to all
people who wish to explore
sexuality as a positive factor
in their lives.

1400 Lafayette

1545 Tremont

1895 Lafayette
Boulder

831-7707
623-4349

222-0870
753-3511

announcements

Graphics editor needed - Call
the BMR office at 322-2010.

Consciousness raising
Groups - We are receiving
calls from women in the
Denver area who are interest-
ed in CR groups. If you are
involved in such a group or
know of groups which are
forming, please call the BMR
office or the Women in
Transition house at 255-2435.

Coalition to form a Denver
Women’s Center is meeting
August 15 at 7:30 pm at the
WIT house 1895 Lafayette St.
All interested groups and
individuals are welcome. The
upcoming Women’s Festival
will also be discussed. We
need your energies! Please
come!

Anyone interested in singing
or dancing at the Women’s
Festival contact Judy at
355-5332. There will be a stage
and performers can pass the
hat if they wish.

Answer: Across — 1. Barb; 5. UN; 1. UFO; 8A.0, 9. 2N4 ne RR, 15% 5 14 Bas 1% onion;
22. F; 23. @ 24. K; 25. family; 31. MA; 35. 1, 34, Weren; 39. oral, 43. R; 46. -4cuth}

31. hope;

Down— 1. Buzz-off, 2. Ann; 3. R; 4. burro; 8. Franklin, 14. Big Mama.

(8. N; 26. amor; 30. Y; 34. worth; 37. elite; 45. th; 47. ro; 48. Up.

NEWS

“You Can't Stop NOW!”
14th Conf. Held in Texas

National Public Information
Office, NOW -- Proving the
theme, “You Can’t Stop
NOW!”, the women and men
attending NOW’s 1974 Na-
tional Conference initiated a
dynamic and far-reaching
program for the coming year.
Innovative strategies were
planned in such areas as
employment, marriage and
the family, women’s right to
choose, women in sports, and
international Feminism.
Combatting employment
discrimination was designated
as a high priority for the
coming year, with plans to
focus activities on large
corporations and on compli-
ance agencies which do not
fulfill their mandate. NOW
plans to take action both
nationally and locally against
Sears, which is a major
offender in failing to meet
equal employment opportuni-
ty standards for women.
NOW also made plans to
design and support legislation
which would guarantee home-
makers an income and social
security benefits. In addition,
the organization plans to
develop educational programs
to raise public consciousness
concerning the varying role
and skills of the homemaker.
Emphasizing women’s right
to reproductive choice and
control of their own bodies,

Denver Folklore Center

AUGUST SALE

10% off EVERYTHING!

NOW resolved to oppose any
anti-abortion amendments to
the Constitution, stating that
“denial of a woman's right to
abortion is a religious, philo-
sophical, and, more impor-
tantly, a spiritual issue, and
not a political issue.” “With
determined opponents of
women’s rights such as the
Ku Klux Klan, John Birch
Society, Young Americans for
Freedom and Right to Lifers”
named as targets, NOW
affirmed its plans to monitor
both locally and nationally the
activities of these organiza-
tions.

In response to almost daily
requests for information from
all parts of the world, NOW
authorized affiliation with
viable international units and
made plans to adopt suggested
international by-laws and
encourage the convening of
new international affiliates.
NOW will apply for non-gov-
ernmental organization (NGO)
consultative status with the
United Nations, providing
many channels in the UN
through which NOW repre-
sentatives can offer the
feminist viewpoint and urge
concerted action.

Book Reviews

Trilogy. Diane Wakoski.
Doubleday. $2.95.
Janet McReynolds

This is a reissue of the first
three volumes of Diane
Wakoski’s poems, which have
previously been unavailable
except on the rare book
market, with an extremely
useful introduction by the
author. The collection, con-
sisting of Coins & Coffins,
Discrepancies and Appari-
tions and The George Wash-
ington Poems offer valuable
insights into the poet's later
work, as well as being a trip in
themselves.

Diane has always been
conscious of her position as a
female in a man's world. A
feeling of displacement and
alienation permeates these
poems. Unlike Adrienne Rich
and Anne Sexton, who both
seem at home in the feminine
side of their psyches, Diane
seems caught in a perpetual
conflict between the feminine
and masculine sides of her
mind, unsure of her own
identity and uncomfortable in
a world which insists on
treating her like a stranger.
She is inventing herself. Her
poems are an attempt to
construct a personal myth
which reacts to the dominant
patriarchal myth of our cul-

ture, at times complying,
at other times contradicting
it.

The dramatic poems take
the form of an extended
dialogue with a male who is
brother, father, or lover. The
brother, significantly,
committed suicide and ap-
pears in the poems as an
animus figure. The lover
poems are the most painful,
being filled with images of
dismemberment, fragmenta-
tion, death of the ego. Again
and again she hurls her
identity against the “other,”
experiencing the sense of
loneliness and abandonment
which is a common feature of
love relationships in our
society. One of the poems
comments:

A realization of difference
came,

and comes and comes and
comes.

When will I find a lover

who is not a blizzard of
slashed feelings?

The George Washington
poems are an examination of
the failure of patriarchal
society, the world of fact that
depersonalizes both men and
women, leaving them es-
tranged from their own feel-
ings. George Washington as a
symbol is a surrogate for her
personal father, who aban-
doned her when she was quite
small. In “The Father of My
Country” she says: my father
made me what I am,/ a lonely
woman,/ without a purpose,
just as I was/ a lonely child /
without any father.”

George Washington is also
metal, currency, agriculture,
the flatness of fact. In
“George Washington: The
Whole Man” she tests the
symbol against the men she
has known, illustrating her
premise that “somehow we
have all been swamped by
history and bamboozled a bit;
that its elegance is also an
absurdity. That our feelings
which we honor, simply
because we have them, are
also mundane and foolish.”
“Trilogy” read as one long
poem, becomes a spiritual
autobiography, an extended

dialogue with the world, in
which the poet, with no
guidelines except her own
feelings, is continually reject-
ing false images, readjusting
her vision, seeing the same
experience over and over, as if
multiplicity must eventually
render up all possible truths.

Sexual Honesty
edited by Shere Hite
Warner Paperback $1.50

Donna Good

During summer my time for
reading increases sevenfold
and in the past month I've
outdone myself, reading al-
most everything I'd put aside
all winter. Of all that I’ve read,
two books stand out in my
mind so much that I feel an
almost evangelistic urge to
tell you about them.

The first book goes by the
rather straightforward title,
Sexual Honesty. And that’s
really what it’s all about. Two
years ago a NOW member by
the name of Shere Hite sent
out an incredibly long and
comprehensive sex question-
naire to women all over the
country. She went to a lot of
trouble to make sure she got a
random sample of women
including doctors’ offices, handing it
out freely to any woman met,
and, incredibly, having Oui
magazine publish it.

The book is subtitled, a
book by women, for women,
and is itself simply an
assortment of some of the
answers Shere Hite got in
response to her questions.
Reading the book, I was
depressed and, in turn,
elated. Most of the women
must have spent three or four
hours on their answers with
some of them obviously using
the questionnaire to vent
frustrations. Some of the
women just as obviously,
have used it to talk about a
forbidden subject.

I have never seen a book
which so clearly showed me
the bonds I share with other
women and how very basic
they are to our lives. I think
every woman should be given
a copy of this book on her
twelfth birthday (a new puber-
ty rite) and every man should
be required to read it at
ten-year intervals.

Walk to the End of the World
Suzy McKee Charnas
Ballantine Books $1.25

The other book I would like
to tell you about is a new
science fiction novel by Suzy
McKee Charnas called, Walk
to the End of the World. For
Feminists who love sci-fi this
book is a treasure. Instead of
the usual brilliant, virile,
dominant young fellow who
triumphs over the whims of
space and fate, we have a
whole new world built for us
— a world where the society
of the western world today
has been carried as far as it
can go along the way it now
pursues.

In Walk the atomic war has
come and long gone and a
new world has started to
rebuild itself; a world where
the sexes are completely
separate and women are the
dregs of the society, used for
breeding and total servitude.

Out of these dregs come a
strong female society (under-
ground of course) and from
this society emerges our
heroine — who is not saved by
any deus ex machina; does
not fall in love with the
handsome hero; and does not
give us our typical happy
ending.

Ed. Note: The following is a
Feminist science fiction bibli-
ography submitted to BMR by
Ms. Charnas:

Anderson, Susan, & Vonda McIntyre,
AURORA; BEYOND EQUALITY*
Gold Medal, 1974? An anthology
about changes in gender roles.

Brown, Rosel, GALACTIC SYBIL SUE
BLUE, Berkeley, 1968. A breezy
female detective of the future,
funny and vivacious.

Carter, Angela, HEROES AND
VILLAINS, Pocket Books, 1970. A
magnificent futuristic nightmare,
after the next war.

Charnas, Suzy McKee, WALK TO THE
END OF THE WORLD, Ballantine,
Spring 1974. A super-sexist society
destroying itself.

Emshwiller, Carol, JOY IN OUR
CAUSE, Harper & Row, Spring
1974, A hardcover anthology
including some sf stories.

LeGuin, Ursula K., THE LEFT HAND
OF DARKNESS, Ace 1972. An
hermaphroditic society and a
unique love story.

McCaffrey, Anne, THE SHIP WHO
SANG, Walker 1970 (hardcover). A
woman who is a spaceship, her
mind in a steel frame.

Mitchison, Naomi, MEMOIRS OF A
SPACEWOMAN, Berkeley 1973, An

Piserchia, Doris, STAR RIDER
Bantam, Spring 1974. Rapid adven-
tures of a tough but naive heroine
on and between planets.

Russ, Joanna, PICNIC ON
PARADISE, Ace 1968. A strong
female time-traveller leads a group
of future refugees to safety.

Russ, Joanna, THE FEMALE MAN,
Bantam 1975. Sexual futures,
including an all-female Utopia and
male and female societies at war.

Saxton, Josephine, THE HIEROS
GAMOS OF SAM AND ANN
SMITH, Curtis 1972.

Walton, Evangeline, ISLAND OF THE
MIGHTY, Ballantine 1970. Devasta-
ting arrival of concept of father-
hood in Ancient, mythic Wales.

Wilhelm, Kate, MARGARET AND I,
Ballantine 1972.

Wittig, Monique, LES GUERILLERES,
Ballantine 1973. A stunning Ama-
zon fantasy, strong group-identity
feeling.

NWPC

From Page 11

overruled by her sister.

The amended resolution,
containing only a generalized
condemnation of violence
with an expression of sym-
pathy, was announced perio-
dically on Wichita radio
stations during the afternoon
when further information on
the cause of the shootings
testified to the group’s good
judgment and taste. The final
resolution read:

“With a deep sense of grief,
the National Women’s Politi-
cal Caucus deplores the
continued acts of violence
against humanity and the
caucus extends its sympathy
to the families of Mrs. Alberta
King, Edward Boykin and Mrs.
Jimmy Mitchell.”

Spa: ae vii Sr :

ane” bi istiniimeibiiccnaninii into a car at knife-point, driven to a

22 RAPE

HELP

From Page 18

High Street Community Center is a
neighborhood action program which
has recently instituted a Rape
Awareness and Control Program
through the efforts of Clarence Brisco,
the program director of the community
center. Women from the community
went to Brisco about their assaults
and were reluctant to report them to
the police. He hopes that the program
will encourage women to report rapes
to the police so that rapists can be
taken off the street.

“Women don't want to go through
the traumatic experience of reporting a
rape. We have set up a procedure with
Denver General Hospital that allows
us tentative access to the emergency
room with the victim.”

A woman who lives in the High St.
area would be more likely to call a
northeast Denver phone number to
talk to someone and to get help from
another member of the community
then she would be to call a strange
number. The police have changed, but
the past is still there and it will take
time to get community people to use
community and city-established facil-
ities.”

The Rape Awareness Program is not
in full operation yet because a federal
mini-grant that had been “programati-
cally approved” but has since been
denied due to bureaucratic mishandl-
ing of funding in Washington, D.C.
has slowed down the organization of
the program a bit. “We were only
asking for a measly $6,000,” Brisco
says. The hotline that was to be
financed by this grant has been taken
care of by having a community dance.
When the money raised by the dance
has run out then the center will
sponsor another one.

fund it fora year. This money provides
for two paid staff, no equipment and
no hotline. “We're the only program in
Northeast Denver that deals with rape
- we should have some priority in
funding,” states Brisco.

“Chicanos, Indians, Orientals, Ang-
los and Blacks live in this area. We
don’t turn anyone away who wants to
help,” continues Brisco. “We're sick
and tired of seeing women being raped
and being afraid of reporting because
of fear of the traumatic experience of
going through an investigation. We're
disgusted with the lack of under-

standing of women from their
families.
Ann Caldwell, who is on the

steering committee of the Denver
Coalition on Sexual Assault, and
Judith Nugaris, a psychiatric social
worker, coordinate the Rape Aware-
ness Program. Men are directly
involved in the counseling program to
present a male point of view especially
when a husband rejects his wife who
is a victim.

“There is a reluctance to go to
Denver General because it's a big,
impersonal place,” Ms. Nugaris says.
“The victim is uneasy and | hold hands
alot. When a woman has been raped
she needs a friend - a nonjudgmental,
noncritical friend who is supportive.
This rape counseling program is
particularly sensitized to minority
people who might be less trusting of
other institutions in the city.”

Any persons who would like to learn
more about the program, would like to
become a volunteer, or have some
input for the program are invited to
attend a Monday night meeting at the
Center at 3401 High Street at 7:30.

SPIRITS RUNWAY

Spirits Runway is a “landing place
for youth" focated at 29th and
Sheridan in west Denver. Jenny
Madrigal, a member of the staff at the
youth center announced that a rape
counseling program has just begun.
“We became aware of the scope of the
Problem through the director, Father
Mollison. We went through the
training program at the Southeast
Denver Neighborhood Services Bureau
with Mary Stage. She does a terrific
job. Damn, is she good!

“Now that we have this training we
can work with rape victims. We are the
only center on the west side of Denver
that has this service, even though the
government has other agencies over
here they don’t do anything for a
woman or child who is raped.

“We can’t get any federal funding
for the hotline or any extensive rape
counseling service because we also
advertise that we do _ spiritual
counseling here and the federal money
agencies don’t like to have that a
public aspect of any program that they
fund.

“Three of us do the counseling now
and the rape counseling hotline will be
open from 10 to 5 on weekdays. The
number is 455-9036.”

The youth center is open for all
people to come to let off steam, talk to
somebody, relax.

TRIAL

The trial of accused rapist Gary
Creed Howell has been reset for
August 19th in Court Room 12 of the
City and County Building. The first
trial ended in a hung jury.

secluded alley and raped. The rapist
apologized, explaining he did it
because his wife was pregnant.

Big Mama Rag Vol. 3, No. 2

RAPE HELP

Southeast Denver Neighborhood Ser-
vices Bureau 24 hour victim crisis
line, free and confidential assistance,
informal counseling, professional
psychiatric help available, referrals for
long-term help and private physicians.
321-8191 227 Clayton

High Street Rape Awareness and
Control Program Hotline listening
service, informal counseling, victim
will be accompanied by a volunteer
from her own neighborhood if she
wishes. 255-2765 3401 High Street
Northeast Denver

Spirits Runway rape counseling,
referrals, and spiritual counseling.
455-9036 between 10 A.M. and 5 P.M.
weekdays 5138 W. 29th West Denver

Denver Coalition on Sexual Assault
self defense class in the fall,
victim-rap groups meet as the need
arises, counseling. A volunteer
program for women and men who wish
to do something about rape in Denver.
Counseling, Speakers Bureau, Legis-
lative, Health Care, Mass Media Task
Forces. office hours 9-5, 321-8192

Aurora Self Protection classes
366-1511 ask for Mary Perrott.

Westside Action Center possible
victim counseling service soon. 1312
Santa Fe Drive 534-5141.

Women Against Rape [WAR] call the
Big Mama Rag office 322-2010.

Violence Research Institute Dr.

of rape victims or ‘women who aborted
rape attempts. 623-8252.

Rape Offenders Treatment Program to Begin

The beginnings of an evaluation and
treatment program for sex offenders is
being instituted by Dr. Harry Chapman
who has recently become a part of the
Violence Research Unit at Denver
General Hospital. Dr. Chapman has
worked on an offenders treatment
program in recent years and now has
had a part of it funded.

An offender can be treated three
distinct ways by the court, according
to Dr. Chapman. After he is
prosecuted and is found to be guilty of
a sex crime he can be sentenced to
Canon City or Buena Vista where he
will receive little if any treatment or
rehabilitation. The second alternative
is for the judge to sentence him under
the Sexual Offenders Act which will
give the convicted offender a sentence
span of one day to life, with the intent
to provide treatment and rehabilita-
tion.

The decision by the judge is made
after an evaluation hearing at which
two psychiatrists and anyone else the
court deems necessary will testify as
to the mental condition of the
offender. The Department of Institu-
tions, not the court, will make the final
decision as to which facility to send

_ the man if he is sentenced under the

Sex Offenders Act - whether to the
State Hospital or to Buena Vista.

The third way a defendant pleads
not guilty by reason of insanity is that
he is given the psychiatric evaluation
which will determine his sanity. If he
is found insane he will be placed in the
State Hospital until the hospital staff
renders him safe to society and he is
released. Whenever the offender is
deemed ‘‘safe’’ is determined by
whatever process the staff at the
hospital uses for sanity. “We need a
systematic set of evaluation proces-
ses,” says Dr. Chapman.

Dr. Chapman feels that one way to
treat sex offenders is to have half-way
houses in the community where
offenders would live and return to after
holding jobs in the community. “But
no one wants a half-way house in their
community and the offender's behav-
ior needs to be evaluated in the
community. He needs community
experience. The rapist doesn’t fit into
any usual pattern of illness or mental
health. He is not the usual psychiatric
patient.”

He also feels that a possible reason
for this society’s sexual behavior is
that- sexual activity is not taught to
children. “Children are taught that a
stove is hot but they are also taught
that it has other good uses - it cooks
food. But there is no teaching of
sexuality. It is not talked about except
in prohibitions. The family doesn't
teach it, the church and school don’t
teach anything good about sex. So
kids learn from peer groups. With
males it is typically self-centered, but
with females it is dealt with more in
terms of seduction: me-thou rather
than being personally centered. Social
mores requires that the man is
aggressive and the woman passive.”

In Dr. Chapman's proposal he would
like to set up a program of evaluation
in order to discriminate between
rapists and sex offenders as to just
how dangerous (meaning how likely to
repeat their behavior) they are in order
to provide appropriate treatment.

“We will use clinical interviews of
the family, friends, associates and
psychological test batteries. Men who
volunteer for the evaluation will be
aware that we have a gentleman’s
agreement with the D.A. and the
Public Defender. None of the data can
be used by the defense or the
prosecution in court.

“We would like to provide part of the
over-all treatment rehabilitation pro-
grams that would be available to
Canon City State Penitentiary, Buena
Vista Reformatory, or on the streets
with therapy, or in the community
setting for sex offenders. However,
the ultimate jurisdiction is with the
parole board and the courts. if they
decide that a particular offender
shouldn’t be in a program they can
remove him.

“This way there would be some
evaluation prior to release from an
institution and some basis for
assurance of what's going on with the
offender.”

Some possible means of treatment
would be psychodrama, bio-feed back
which is effective in teaching people
how to control certain aspects of their
functions. An offender with poor
impulse control needs to be more
effective in thinking of himself.
Bio-feed back will teach him that he
can control functions that he thinks

* are purely automatic. He will learn that

“Lwant...” is the cue to thinking “I had
better hold back...” Behavior. modifi-
cation is another means of treatment
and it is a touchy subject. Dr.
Chapman sees it as putting someone
in control of their own behavior,
because if he doesn’t control it,
somebody else will.

. “At this point there is some
research literature on what we're doing
- lots of speculation - at the beginning
stages of this there is enough data to
suggest that the kinds of things we're
doing work. We are just gathering data
at this point. We want to be able to
discriminate among offenders.”


RAPE |

RAPE: The All-American Crime

From Page 7

when crossing the street. To be
feminine is to wear shoes which make
it difficult to run; skirts which inhibit
one’s stride; underclothes which
inhibit the circulation. Is it not an
intriguing observation that those very
clothes which are thought to be
flattering to the female and attractive
to the male are those which make it
impossible for a woman to defend
herself against aggression?

Women Taught Fear

Each girl as she grows into
womanhood is taught fear. Fear is the
form in which the female internalizes
both chivalry and the double standard.
Since, biologically speaking, women
in fact have the same if not greater
potential for sexual expression as do
men, the woman who is taught that
she must behave differently from a
man must also learn to distrust her
own Carnality. She fears herself. This
is the essence of passivity, and of
course, a woman’s passivity is not
simply sexual but functions to cripple
her from self-expression in every area
of her life.

Passivity itself prevents woman
from ever considering her own
potential for self-defense and forces
her to look to men for protection. The
woman is taught fear, but this time
fear of the other; and yet her only
relief from this fear is to seek out the
other. Moreover, the passive woman is
taught to regard herself as impotent,
unable to act, unable even to perceive,
in no way self-sufficient, and, finally,
as the object and not the subject of
a woman is deprived of the status of a
human being. She is not free to be...

If the basic social unit is the
family, in which the woman is a
possession of her husband, the
superstructure of society is a male
hierarchy, in which men dominate
other men (or patriarchal families
dominate other patriarchal families).
And it is no small irony that, while the
very social fabric of our male-domi-
nated culture denies women equal
access to political, economic and
legal power, the literature, myth and
humor of our culture depicts women
not only as the power behind the
throne, but the real source of the
oppression of men. The religious
version of this fairy tale blames Eve for
both carnality and eating of the tree of
knowledge, at the same time making
her gullible to the obvious devices of a
serpent. Adam, of course, is merely
the trusting victim of love.

Certainly this is a biased story.
But no more biased than the one
television audiences receive today
from the latest slick comedians.
Through a media which is owned by
men, censored by a State dominated
by men, all the evils of this social
system which make a man’s life
unpleasant are blamed upon “the
wife.” The theory is: were it not for the
female who waits and plots to “trap”
the male into marriage, modern man
would be able to achieve Olympian
freedom. She is made the scapegoat
for a system which is in fact run by
men. ts
White Racist Attitudes

Nowhere is this more clear than
in the white racist use of the concept
of white womanhood. The white
male’s open rape of black women,
coupied with hisoverwhelmingconcern
for the chastity and protection of his
wife and daughters, represents an
extreme of sexist and racist hypocrisy.
While on the one hand she was held
up as the standard for purity and
virtue, on the other the Southern white
woman was never asked if she wanted
to be on a pedestal, and in fact any
deviance from the male-defined
standards for white womanhood was
treated severely. (It is a powerful
commentary on American racism that
the historical role of Blacks as slaves,
and thus possessions without power,
has robbed black women of legal and
economic protection through mar-
riage.

r. [tis in this sense that _

Thus black women in Southern
society and in the ghettoes of the
North have long been easy game for
white rapists.) The fear that black men
would rape white women was, and is,
classic paranoia. Quoting frém Ann
Breen’s unpublished study of racism
and sexism in the South “The New
South: White Man's County,” Freder-
ick Douglass legitimately points out
that, had the black man wished to rape
white women, he had ample oppor-
tunity to do so during the Civil War
when white women, the wives, sisters,
daughters and mothers of the rebels,
were left in the care of Blacks. But yet
not a single act of rape was committed
during this time.

The Ku Klux Klan, who tarred
and feathered black men and lynched
them in the honor of the purity of
white womanhood, also applied tar
and feathers to a Southern white
woman accused of bigamy, which
leads one to suspect that Southern

wile men, | So. much outraged
Bes a vio } of the woman as a
person, in the few instances where
rape was actually committed by black
men, but at the violation of his
property rights.” In the situation
where a black man was found to be
having sexual relations with a white
woman, the white woman could
exercise skin privilege, and claim that
she had been raped, in which case the
black man was lynched. But if she did
not claim rape, she herself was
subject to lynching.

Myth of White Womanhood

In construction of the myth of
white womanhood so as to justify the
lynching and oppression of black men
and women, the white male has
created a convenient symbol of his
own power which has resulted in black
hostility toward the white “bitch”,
accompanied by an unreasonable fear
on the part of many white women of
the black rapist. Moreover, it is not
surprising that after being told for two
centuries that he wants to rape white
women, occasionally a black man
does actually commit that act. But it is
crucial to note that the frequency of
this practice is outrageously exagge-
rated in the white myths. Ninety
percent of reported rape is intra- not
inter-racial.

In Soul on Ice, Eldridge Cleaver
has described the mixing of a rage
against white power with the
internalized sexism of a black man
raping a white woman. “Somehow |
arrived at the conclusion that, as a
matter of principle, it was of
paramount importance for me to have
an antagonist, ruthless attitude
toward white women... Rape was an
insurrectionary act. It delighted me
that | was defying and trampling upon
the white man’s law, upon his system
of values and that | was defiling his
women--and this point, | believe, was
the most satisfying to me because |
was very resentful over the historical
fact of how the white man has used
the black woman.” Thus a black man
uses white women to take out his rage
against white men. But in fact,
whenever a rape of a white woman by a
black man does take place, it is again
the white man who benefits.

First, the act itself terrorizes the
white woman and makes her more
dependent on the white male for
protection. Then, if the woman
prosecutes her attacker, the white
man is afforded legal opportunity to

exercise over racism. Of course the
knowledge of the rape helps to
perpetuate the two myths which are
beneficial to white male rule--the
bestiality of the black man and the
desirability of white women. Finally,
the white man surely benefits because
he himself is not the object of the
attack--he has been allowed to stay in
power.

Indeed, the existence of rape in
any form is beneficial to the ruling
class of white males. For rape is a
kind of terrorism which severely limits
the freedom of women and makes
women dependent on men. Moreover,
in the act of rape, the rage that one
man may harbor toward another higher
in the male hierarchy can be deflected
toward a female scapegoat. For every
man there is always someone lower on
the social scale on whom he can take
out his aggressions. And that is any
woman alive.

This oppressive attitude to-

wards women finds its institutionali-
zation in the traditional family. For it
is assumed that a man “wears the
pants” in his family--he exercises the
option of rule whenever he so
chooses. Not that he makes all the
decisions--clearly women make most
of the day-to-day decisions in a
family. But when a conflict of interest
arises, it is the man’s interest which
will prevail. His work, in itself, is more
powerful. He lords it over his wife in
the same way his boss lords it over
him, so that the very process of
exercising his power becomes as
important an act as obtaining
veneer it is in his power can get for
im.

This notion of power is key to

.the male ego in this culture, for the

two acceptable measures of mascu-
linity are a man’s power over women
and his power over other men. A man
may boast to his friends that “I have 20
men working for me.” It is also
aggrandizement of his ego if he has
the financial power to clothe his wife
in furs and jewels. And, if a man lacks
the wherewithal to acquire such
power, he can always express his rage
through equally masculine activities--
Rape and theft. Since male society
defines the female as a possession, it
is not surprising that the felony most
often committed together with rape is
theft. As the following classic tale of
rape points out, the elements of theft,
violence and forced sexual relations
merge into an indistinguishable
whole.
A Woman’s Story
The woman who told this story
was acquainted with the man who
tried to rape her. When the man
learned that she was going to be
staying alone for the weekend, he
began early in the day a polite
campaign to get her to go out with
him. When she continued to refuse his
request, his chivalrous mask dropped
away:
“) had locked all the doors
because | was afraid, and | don’t know
how he got in; it was probably
through the screen door. When | woke
up, he was shaking my leg. His eyes
were red, and | knew he had been
drinking or smoking. | thought | would
try to talk my way out of it. He started
by saying that he wanted to sleep with
me, and then he got angrier and
angrier, until he started to say, ‘| want
pussy,’ ‘Il want pussy.” Then, | got
scared and tried to push him away.

That’s when he started to force
himself on me. It was awful. It was the
most humiliating, terrible feeling. He
was forcing my legs apart and ripping
my clothes off. And it was painful. |
did fight him--he was slightly drunk
and | was able to keep him away. | had
taken judo a few years back, but | was
afraid to throw a job for fear that he'd
kill me. | could see he was getting
more and more violent. | was thinking
wildly of some way to get out of this
alive and then | said to him, ‘Do you
want money. I'll give you money.’ We
had money but | was also thinking that
if | got to the back room { could
telephone the police--as if the police
‘would even have helped. It was a
stupid thing to think of because
obviously he would follow me. And he
did. When he saw me pick up the
phone, he tried to tie the cord around
my neck. | screamed at him that | did
have the money in another room, that !
was going to call the police because !
was scared, but that | would never tell
anybody what happened. It would be
an absolute secret. He said okay, and |
went to get the money. But when he
got it, all of a sudden he got this crazy
look in his eye and he said to me,
‘Now I’m going to kill you.’ Then |
started saying my prayers. | knew
there was nothing | could do. He
started to hit me--t still wasn’t sure if
he wanted to rape me at this point--or
just to kill me. He was hurting me, but
he hadn't yet gotten me into a
Strangle-hold because he was still
drunk and off balance. Somehow he
pushed into the kitchen where | kept
looking at this big knife. But i didn’t
pick it up. Somehow, no matter how
much | hated him at that moment, |
still couldn't imagine putting the knife
into his flesh, and then | was afraid he
would grab it and stick it into me.
Then he. was hitting me again and

ERA erRS a NEM

steps. We fell down the steps and
that’s when he started to strangle me
He was on top of me. He just went on
and on until finally | lost conscious-
ness. | did scream, though my
screams sounded like whispers to me.
But what happened was that a cab
driver happened by and frightened him
away. The cab driver revived me--! was
out only a minute at the most. And
then | ran across the street and |
grabbed the woman who was our
neighbor and screamed at her, ‘Am |
alive? Am | still alive?’
Threat of Death

Rape is an act of aggression in which
the victim is denied her self-determin-
ation. It is an act of violence which, if
not actually ‘followed by beatings or
murder, nevertheless always carries
with it the threat of death. And finally,
rape is a form of mass terrorism, for
the victims of rape are chosen
indiscriminately, but the propagand-
ists for male supremacy broadcast
that it's women who cause rape by
being unchaste or in the wrong place
at the wrong time--in essence, by
behaving as though they were free.

The threat of rape is used to
deny women unemployment. (In Cali-
fornia, the Berkeley Public Library,
until pushed by the Federal Employ-
ment Practices Commission, refused
to hire female shelvers because of
perverted men in the stacks.) The fear
of rape keeps women off the streets at
night. Keeps women at home. Keeps
women passive and modest for fear
that they be thought provocative.

It is part of human dignity to be
able to defend oneself and women are
learning. Some women have learned
karate; some to shoot guns. And yet
we will not be free until the threat of
rape and the atmosphere of violence is
ended, and to end that the nature of
male behavior must change.

But rape is not an isolated act
that can be rooted out from patriarchy
without ending patriarchy itself. Rape
is a Classic act of domination where,
in the words of Kate Millett, “the
emotions of hatred, contempt and the
desire to break or violate personality,”
takes place. This breaking of the
personality characterizes modern life
itself. No simple reforms can
eliminate rape. As the symbolic
expression of the white male
hierarchy, rape is the quintessential
act of our civilization, one which,
Valerie Solanis warns, is in danger of
“humping itself to death.”

wi)


on

A FEMINIST CALENDAR OF EVENTS

Aug. 1 Wine, Women & Aug. 8 “The Long
Song #1, Big Chain’(about
Mama Rag women !n India)
Benefit. Oxford and “The Black
Hotel. 161217th Girl.” Free
St., 8:00 p.m. films. “Perspec-
$2.50 donation. on Women" Inst
CU Bouider
Campus. Engi-
neering Ctr.
Aug. 2 “Woo Who? May 8:00 pm
Wilson” Free
film. “Perspec- NOW Board
tivés on Wo- meeting. Call
men” Institute. 831-7707 for lo-
CU Boulder cation.
Campus. Engi-
neering Ctr.
8:00 p.m. Aug. 9 “Herstory” and
“Women on the
Denver Gay Coa- March.” Free
lition Coffee- films. “Persp.
house. Greek on Women” Inst.
Dinner with folk- CU Bould. Cam-
music, dancing pus. Engineer-
DFU-17th & ing Ctr. 8:00 pm
Park. 8:30 pm
$0.75. Denver Gay Co-
alition Poetry
Aug. 3 “From 3am to Night. DFU 17th
10 pm" and “The & Park Ave, 8:30
Women’s Film.” $0.25.
Free films,
“Persp. on Wo- Aug.10 Seminar on rape
men” Inst. CU prevention. De-
Boulder Campus nison Aud. 4200
Engineering Ctr. E. 9th Ave. 9:30
8:00 pm am
Aug.12 Rapecontrol.
Aug. 4 BMR business 3401 High. 7:30
meeting. 1724 pm
Gaylord. 7:30
pm Aug.13 BMR deadline
for Sept. issue.
Aug. 5 Rape control
and awareness Rocky Mountain
group. 3401 Women in the
High. 7:30 pm Arts (RMWA)
meeting Kathy
Pritchett, own-
Lesbian Task er; form jewel-
Force meeting. ers, 1895 Lafay-
7:30. Call 936- ette. 8:00 pm
7028. Au “ 1K
g. 14 Town meeting
in Denver fora
give-and-take ,
Aug.7 “Salt of the session with —
Earth” Free film. State legislature
“Perspective on candidates from
Women" insti- Capitol Hill-
tute. CU Boulder Washington
Campus. Engi- Park area dis-
neering Ctr. tricts. Washing-
8:00 pm ton Park United
Church of
Christ, 400 S.
Williams. 7:30
pm
RT ER erat MO ONT EN STN TN
Big Mama Rag
1724 Gaylord Street
Denver, Colorado 80206
SUBSCRIBE!
Cy ——

Address:

A A LO LT LL A

te renee ZIP? eee

$5.00 one year sub
$3.00 to Women’s Institutions

$. 40 back copies

Aug.15 Denver Gay Co

alition general

meeting. Call of-

fice for location
831-8838. 8:00
pm

Coalition for
Denver's Women
Center meet.
1895 Lafayette.
7:30pm

Boulder Gay Lib.
dance. Hidden
Valley Ranch.
9:00 pm $3.00.

Aug. 17

BMR ed. meet.
1724 Gaylord.
7:30pm

Aug. 19

Rape control.
3401 High. 7:30
pm

Workshop “On
Job Direction.”
Denver Wo-
men's Resource
Center, 1545
Tremont, Room
210, Cal) 222-
0870. Aug. 20-
25.

Aug. 20

Aug. 21 = Sherry party for
new and prspec-
tive members.
Denver Branch.
American Asso-
ciation of Uni-
versity Women. :
72 Jasmine.
7:30 to 9:00 pm
Call Janice De-
Temple 458-
8376.

Aug. 22 Multi-media pre-
sentation on
Denver women’s
image from the
turn of the cen-
tury to the
1960s. “Denver
Pioneer Women
Yesterday and
Today.” Main Li-
brary Aud. 7:30
to 9:00 pm

Big Mama Rag
1724 Gaylord Streat
Denver, Colorado 80206

Denver's First
Annual Wo-
men’s Festival.
Pavilion in front
of East High
School. All day.
Proceeds will go
to the Coalition
for the Denver
Women’s Cen-
ter.

Aug. 25

Aug. 26 Rapecontrol.
3401 High. 7:30

pm

“Town meeting”
in Denver fora
give-and-take
session with
state legislature
candidates from
the Park Hill and
Mayfair dis-
tricts. Montview
Presbyterian
Church, 1980
Dahlia. 7:30 pm

Aug. 28

RMWA film,
“When This You
See, Remember
Me” on Gertrude
Stein by Ms..
Miller Adato. St.
Barnabus
Church. 12th &
Vine. 8:00 pm
$0.50. .
Aug. 29 NOW general
meeting. Park
Hill Congrega-$
tional Church,
2600 Leyden.
7:00 orientation.
7:30 business
meeting 8:15
program. Free
child care pro-
vided.

Denver Gay Co-
alition Coffee-
house. Women’s
Night. DFU 17th
& Park Ave. 8:30
pm $0.25.

Aug. 30

if your group would like its
activities included in
BMR’s Calendar of Events,
please send us your news-
letter or call 322-2010.

Bulk Rate
“U.S. Postage
PAID

Denver, Co. }
Permit no, 1512



"Big Mama Rag." Big Mama Rag, vol. 3, no. 2, Aug. 1974. Archives of
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com%2Fapps%2Fdoc%2FSKMPPB3
89029195%2FAHSI%3Fu%3Dclemsonu_main%26sid%3Dbookmark
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.
