dO)

“aaa

January, 1974

EDITOR: Dian Terry : 3

MONTHLY NEWSLETTER OF THE NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN

CALL TO NOW’S SEVENTH CONFERENCE

Dear Sisters and Brothers in NOW:

Would you believe, NOW’s 7th Conference scheduled for May 25, 26, 27, 1974 in Houston, Texas,
is only about five months hence? As inexorable as time itself is the Theme (so far) selected for the
Conference: YOU CAN’T STOP NOW! Yes, it does have meanings for NOW members and non-
(yet) members.

Conference purposes include inspiration and (re) dedication; education and skills; policy and
strategy; feminist forum — personal and political (personal is political and vice versa); evaluation.
Whatever else, the Conference is our periodic opportunity to get together, to affirm, confirm our
commitment to and development of feminism that is central to any humanism. It’s experience
and a process as well as ‘happening(s)’.

This Conference will have some innovations. As always, we will choose people for particular respon-
sibilities and opportunities, i.e. officers, other Board members and 3 of the 7 next nominating com-
mittee. Unlike some instances previously, at least two nominees for each job will be presented to
the Conference attendees by the Nominating Committee. Other candidates will be possible and
welcomed. Also, campaigning will be more open and guidelines will be more liberal to facilitate
knowing candidates and their platforms. (Nominating Committees developing these NOW and will
publish in DO IT NOW). We also anticipate information on How NOW Works (something con-
stantly evolving), a Conference ‘Survival’ booklet, and Resolution guidelines so we can resolve
relatively less and strategize more to move from institutionalized sexism to institutionalizing feminism.
Chapters will want to discuss any really new resolutions pre-Conference after familiarity with the
institutions and policy we already have in considerable areas.

Opportunities to showcase chapter achievements; to see/buy feminist products; to share our sister-
hood and brotherhood for personhood; to laugh and commiserate; to create NOW’s development
and our own; to celebrate our viability and know our rising expectations opens us to vulnerabilities;
all of these and more are part of a NOW conference. As the largest unequivocally feminist organiza-
tion in the world and a vanguard in the profound universal behavioral revolution in this rebirth of
feminism: YOU CAN’T STOP NOW! We will define and reassign power for Life. Come to Houston!

Warmly,

Wilma Scott Heide.

PREVIEW 4
1974 NOW National Conference: Vital Information
Registration Fee: $15 Site: Albert Thomas Convention Center
The Rice Hotel
Memorial Day Weekend: Houston, Texas
Saturday-Monday, May 25-27

NEW PROGRAM IDEAS! EXHIBIT SPACE! SATURDAY NIGHT SPECIAL EVENT!

“HYDE PARK” FORUM FOR SPEAKOUTS! ISSUES — NOW HISTORY — CANDIDATES
FOR NOW OFFICES — ALL WILL BE SPOTLIGHTED! NEWS OF TRANSPORTATION,
HOUSING, CHILD CARE, AND MANY OTHER PLANS TO APPEAR IN DO IT NOW!
WATCH FOR THEM.

Highlights of NOW National Board Meeting  
November 10-11, 1973, St. Louis  

With many major administrative plans and program items for 1974 on a tight two-day agenda, the  
NOW National Board took action on the following:  

* 1974 National Budget approved  

Membership Services contract: The contract for Membership Services, one of the most  
important and most carefully considered items on the Board agenda, was awarded to  
C-R Office Programs of Chicago, with publications production to be shared in part with  
KNOW, Inc. of Pittsburgh. A contract for computer services went to Hartley Data  
Service of Skokie, Ill.  

Committees were established to consider and recommend policy and guidelines on  
State and chapter structure  
Litigation policy  
NOW participation in coalitions and/or coordinating committees  
Present restrictions on the formation of new chapters were lifted, with the viability of  
a new chapter to be a decision of the Regional Director and the State Coordinator.  
(The Board approved the convening of the Golden Gate Chapter, San Francisco.)  

*  

(NOTE: Reports to the NOW Board from NOW’s three national offices, Legislative, National,  
Public Information, are available from each office.)  

IN THE NOW NEWS .  

NOW Women & Religion Task Force Coordinator Joyce Slayton Mitchell reports that Virginia  
Mills, Director of Women’s Affairs, Presbyterian Church U.S.A. is now a consultant to the task  

FORO paar New York NOW is a plaintiff in a class action to make women as liable to jury duty  
as men in New York State..... Cincinnati NOW strongly opposed the efforts of an Ohio legis-  

lator to require sterilization of all welfare women after their second “out-of-wedlock” child.....  

Palo Alto (Calif.) NOW President Enid Davis reports the availability of a skit used for fundraising  

by Palo Alto NOW. The skit, about a mock political convention and the ERA, can be obtained  

by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope and $1.00 to Enid Davis, 1050 Newell Road,  

Palo Alto, Calif...... Eastern Massachusetts NOW has filed sex discrimination charges against  

Harvard University with the EEOC..... Tampa NOW has filed against Anheuser-Busch of Florida...  
Jean Withers, Co-President, Seattle NOW is the author of a new report on prostitution based on  

a three-year study in Seattle, “Prostitution — Fact and Fiction” ..... The Women’s History  

Library, recipient of a small grant from the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, announces  

that the deadline for internships at the Library is January 31, 1974..... NOW University  
Compliance Task Force Coordinator Dr. Ellen Morgan and Dr. Clara R. Melman are interested  
in receiving information from university or college groups which have taken or may take class  
actions in court regarding sex discrimination in academia. Write Dr. Morgan at Cranbury Road,  
Princeton Junction, NJ 08550; Dr. Melman at 120 Beverly Road, Upper Montclair, NJ 07043  
On discrimination in universities, the 12 Southwestern Pennsylvania NOW Chapters involved in  
the NOW and Johnson vs. the University of Pittsburgh case filed in 1972 with the EEOC announced  
in late November the landmark decisions of the EEOC findings: in faculty tenure, inclusion of  
classes of employees other than faculty, and discrimination on the basis of race as well as sex.....  
The first National Conference on the Masculine Mystique will be held the end of March, 1974 in  
New York City, says NOW Masculine Mystique Task Force Coordinator Warren Farrell — More  

on this in the February DO IT NOW. For more information, contact Warren Farrell, Crystal  
Plaza South, Apt. 617, 2111 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202..... The NOW  

New York State Marriage and Divorce Conference will be held at the Hotel Commodore, New York  
City, January 19 and 20.  

set now

NOW President Heide is “Woman of the Year” Nominee  
YOU CAN VOTE FOR WILMA  

NOW President Wilma Scott Heide is a nominee for achievement in Human Rights in the Ladies  
Home Journal “Women of the Year” program. Ladies Home Journal readers will be asked to  
vote for women in this and many other categories announced in the January, 1974 issue of the  
Journal (on news stands in late December). If you’d like to vote for Wilma Scott Heide, here  

are the requirements for voting: fill out the ballot which appears in the January Journal and  
return your ballot as indicated. Only ballots from the Journal itself will be accepted, with no  
photocopies to be validated as votes. Deadline for receipt of ballots is January 21. The awards  
in each category, as with last year’s program, will be presented on nationwide television in the  
spring of 1974. In addition to voting by Journal readers, the nominees will also be considered  
by a “jury panel” established by the Ladies Home Journal. NOW Public Relations Vice President  
Toni Carabillo is a member of the panel.  

YOU CAN HELP  

GULF OIL TO ACCEPT NOW MEMBER’S SHAREHOLDER RESOLUTIONS. Gulf Oil Corporation  
has notified Joan Cummings of Philadelphia NOW that her resolutions will be on the proxy statement  
and ballot for the forthcoming shareholders meeting in 1974. NOW members are urged to write to  

B. R. Dorsey, Chairman of the Board and James E. Lee, President, to encourage them to respond  
favorably to these resolutions at the Gulf Board meeting to be held in January, 1974. Address:  

Gulf Building, Executive Office, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15230. (A copy of Ms. Cummings’ resolutions  
appears in the NOW publication “Strategies for Business Compliance and Government Enforcement”  
available from the NOW Membership Services Office at $2.00 for NOW members.)  

NOW’s Compliance Task Force Subcommittee on Compliance Agencies Coordinator Jeane Bendorf  
announces that the subcommittee still urgently needs information regarding the lack of seriousness  
of compliance agencies in processing charges of sex discrimination. (See DO IT NOW, August, 1973  
for first report on this.) The Subcommittee is not in a position to offer individual advice or help.  

Its stance is to develop a national strategy to force agencies to pursue sex discrimination charges with  
diligence, determination and zeal, says Ms. Bendorf, and the national subcommittee will be working  
in that capacity. Write to Ms. Jeane Bendorf at 1316 N. Laurel Avenue, Los Angeles, Calif. 90046.  
Telephone: (213) 659-3267.  

IS XEROX AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER?  

WE ARE COMPILING COMPLAINTS AGAINST XEROX IN CONTEMPLATION OF A  
NATIONAL ACTION AND POSSIBLE LAWSUIT. IF YOU HAVE FILED A DISCRIMINATION  
CHARGE AGAINST XEROX OR ARE THINKING OF DOING SO, PLEASE SEND  

BRIEF FACTUAL DETAILS AND/OR COPY OF CHARGE TO:  

JUDITH A. LONNOQUIST  

NATIONAL LEGAL VICE PRESIDENT  
201 NORTH WELLS, SUITE 2122  
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60606

1974 NATIONAL CONFERENCE NEWS

Wilma Scott Heide has named Mary Lynn Meyers to coordinate the Resolutions Committee for the
1974 National Conference. Proposed resolutions from regions, states, chapters, etc. for consideration
at the Conference should be sent to Mary Lynn Meyers, 1312 East Church, Pierre, S.D. 57501.

NOW Needs You! ... To Run For National Office and NOW’s Board of Directors

The Opportunity of a Lifetime is yours for the asking — 34 positions are open that offer the chance
for national service to the feminist cause. The reward for serving is immeasurable personal growth,
the knowledge that you are making herstory, and shaping the destiny of the largest and most powerful
of the feminist organizations.

Hurry! Hurry! Hurry! The form for filing as a candidate for one of the nine officerships and 25 seats
on the Board of Directors is now available by sending a stamped, self-addressed envelope to Judith Meuli,
Chair-One of the Nominating Committee, 1126 HiPoint St., Los Angeles, CA 90035 or to your Regional
Director. This is also the form which regions, states, chapters or individuals should use to nominate
candidates (with their advance consent) for these offices.

This year’s Nominating Committee is functioning differently. It proposes to bring in a slate of more
than one candidate for each officer and to report all candidates legally eligible to run as officers and
members of the Board. No one will be arbitrarily disqualified in advance unless they fail to meet basic
requirements: paid membership in National NOW for 6 months in advance of the National Conference.
To qualify to run for office you must be a paid member by Nov. 24, 1973.

According to our by-laws, candidates may be nominated by (1) the Nominating Committee (2) petition
45 days in advance of Conference (3) from the floor. As you can see, the easiest, most equitable way,
is through the Nominating Committee which has agreed to report all legally eligible nominees. So, to
save last minute membership verification checks and to give all candidates equitable exposure, please
file through the Nominating Committee.

Capsule Descriptions of NOW National Offices

All officers and board members of NOW, as all other members, serve as volunteers in elected positions.
Annual membership dues income of the national organization now provides sufficient funds to reimburse
most expenses.

NOTE: Regional Directors are not elected at National Conference. Each region is required to hold a
conference within 6 months following to elect its own Regional Director and conduct other business.

** Chair-One of the Board. Calls and conducts meetings of the national board or executive committee;
supervises chartering of chapters; represents the national organization to the public as necessary
and otherwise promotes the purposes of the organization; cooperates with the President in performing
internal administrative functions.

President. Presides at meetings of the National Conference; administers the day-to-day operations
of the national organization between board meetings; appoints members of standing committees and
special committees as necessary; travels extensively visiting chapters, testifying at hearings, and
otherwise serving as the official spokesperson and representative of the national organization.

Secretary. Records and reproduces minutes and other appropriate records of the national executive
committee, board of directors and National Conference meetings and actions; maintains some
permanent files and carries on some correspondence for the national organization; reviews and
reports on policy positions as necessary or requested.

Treasurer. Collects dues and other monies for the national organization and makes disbursements
according to the national budget; files Internal Revenue Service tax information; prepares periodic
financial reports to the board and an annual report to the membership and other records as required
or requested; supervises chapter treasurers’ record-keeping.

*

**

*

*

*

**

Finance Vice-President. Coordinates financial and fund-raising planning and activities of the
national organization, implementing as necessary through the national Committee on Finances;
prepares and distributes informational and inspirational materials on fund-raising and communi-
cates with chapters; formulates budget and financial policies for board consideration; serves

as liaison with LDEF on finances, etc. Aids membership and provision of services to member-
ship as an essential component of fiscal development; maintains contributors files and record-
keeping relative to direct mail and other fund-raising campaigns.

Legal Vice-President. Serves as legal counsel for the national organization (must be an attorney);
reviews cases presented by chapters for approval of NOW involvement and files cases on behalf
of national; recruits feminist lawyers for advocacy work and coordinates all legal activities of
the national organization and its sub-units; serves as liaison with LDEF on legal activities. E

Legislation Vice-President. Acts as informational resource for legislative activities of chapters,
states, regions, Task Forces and members to aid and coordinate grass-roots lobbying; assists

as necessary in preparation and presentation of position papers, testimony, legislative alerts;
supervises legislative efforts and allied functions, such as working in coalitions; reports to board
and membership current status of pertinent legislation and pressures needed. Oversees the
operations of the National Legislative Office in Washington, D. C.

PUBLIC RELATIONS VICE PRESIDENT: Subject to the approval of the National Board, and
in collaboration with the Director of NOW’s National Public Information Office, develops and
implements NOW’s national public relations program, including: contacts with the press and
media on a national level during and between National Conferences, board meetings, and other
national NOW events; NOW advertising campaigns; production of NOW publications and public
relations tools of mixed media; development of appropriate public relations exposure for NOW
and its representatives; assistance as required to NOW fund-raising campaigns; assistance to
chapters by developing appropriate public relations materials and actions for use on the local
level; and has Board responsibility for overseeing the operations and the development of the
resources of the National Public Information Office.

Chair-One of the Advisory Committee. Convenes, conducts and circulates materials for meetings
of the National Advisory Committee; contacts prospective appointees at the direction of the
National Board; develops and implements special projects undertaken by the Committee.

Member of the Board of Directors. Each member of the Board of Directors is expected to either
chair a standing committee, coordinate a task force, chair one of the board committees such as
the Membership Services, Research and Special Projects, or Personnel & Procedures, or in some
way take on a portfolio capacity. In addition to the above, a member is expected to assist the
regional directors and state coordinators in chapter contacts and field development; represent
the national organization as necessary or when called upon to carry out policies and objectives.

Members of the Executive Committee
Members of the Executive Committee who are also members of the Board of Directors of the
NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, by requirement of the LDEF by-laws.

NOTE: There are 25 members of the Board of Directors, in addition to the 13 members of the
Executive Committee (*). The Nominating Committee is charged with ensuring relatively even
regional representation on the slate of candidates presented for consideration as elected officers
and members of the Board of Directors.

COPIES OF WILMA SCOTT HEIDE’S PRESENTATION, “A FEMINIST PERSPECTIVE OF
MANIPULATION OF WOMAN (WOMAN INCLUDES MAN)”, at the November 8, 1973
Symposium on The Genetic Manipulation of Man (sic) of the University of Wisconsin in
Stevens Point, are available from the NOW Public Information Office, 641 Lexington Avenue,
New York, N. Y. 10022.

Res es

REGIONAL REVIEW

From Jackie Frost, Southern Regional Director

November and December were months of frenzied feminist activity in the Southern Region.....
November 2-4, over 100 Alabama feminists gathered at Cheaha State Park near Anniston, Alabama.
Sarah Jane Stewart organized workshops on Marriage & Divorce & Family Relations, the growing
national Rape Crisis, ERA, Women in Politics, and Chapter Convening. Martha Baker of Alexander
City was elected State Coordinator, and Mary Weidler of Montgomery was elected State Legislative Coordinator.
In Shreveport, Louisiana, NOW members assembled on November 10-11 to adopt state structure

and elect officers, with Linda Martin of Shreveport elected State Coordinator, Janet Schori of

Baton Rouge, State Legislative Coordinator, and Josie Young of Monroe, State Finance Coordinator.
The next weekend, Texas NOW members from throughout the state held their first NOW Organizing
Conference in Dallas. The Lone Star State feminists established a model organizing plan by dividing
the state into five areas for development, each with a dynamic leader elected to direct the effort.
Martha Dickey of Dallas was elected State Coordinator.

From Patsy Fulcher, Western Regional Director

NOW's Western Region will hold a Conference on Consciousness Raising in Fresno, Calif., Febru-
ary 15, 16, and 17, 1974. For further information, contact Patsy Fulcher, 410 Bellevue Avenue,
No. 208, Oakland, Calif. 94610; or Harriet Perl, Los Angeles NOW, 8864 West Pico Blvd.,

Los Angeles, Calif. 90035.

From Fran Kolb & Jo Ann Evens Gardner, Eastern Regional Co-Directors

We are delighted to announce several new State Coordinators: Eileen Kelly, New York State Co-
ordinator; Del Perry, Connecticut State Coordinator; and Ellie Smeal, newly elected President of
Pennsylvania State NOW (she’s also a National Board member.)

Since becoming Regional Directors, we have convened the following new chapters: Massachusetts:
Cape Cod NOW; Connecticut: Suffield-Enfield NOW, Thames NOW; Eastern Connecticut-Seaport
NOW; New York: Schenectady NOW; New Jersey: Mid East Jersey NOW; Pennsylvania:
Venango County NOW, McKeesport NOW, Pocono NOW, Lehigh Valley NOW, Pittsburgh Golden
Triangle NOW, and Blair County NOW.

Some exciting events from the Eastern Region: Pennsylvania NOW has persuaded the Pa. Attorney
General to sue the Pa. Interscholastic Athletic Association to gain an immediate and full equality
for girls in interscholastic athletic events throughout the state. Maine is beginning a new campaign
for ratification of the ERA. New York State NOW is setting up Regional Assistant Coordinators
to help the State Coordinator and is embarking on a pilot fund-raising project. New Jersey

NOW’s Annual Conference is Jan. 12 at Rutgers-Newark. Eastern Region State Coordinators

and Regional Directors will meet Feb. 9-10 in Providence, Rhode Island. For further information
on this meeting, contact Frances Kolb, 521 Spring Valley Dr., Bridgewater, N. J. 08872.

From Kathy Rand, Midwest Regional Director

Congratulations to all members in the Midwest region. Since January of 1973, we have been the
fastest-growing region in NOW. Let's be sure to keep it up! Renew your membership for 1974
NOW. And while you’re at it, why not recruit a friend or relative to join too. Don’t forget:

you must be a NOW member by Feb. 28 to vote at the 1974 National Conference in Houston.
Welcome to the newest convening chapters in the region: Joplin, Mo.; Fremont, Neb.; Bay City,
Mich.; Menomonie, Wis.; and River Falls, Wis. Congratulations to Judy Sidwell of Cincinnati,
recently elected Ohio State Coordinator, and Delores Elliott, new Minnesota State Coordinator.
Attention Chapter Presidents: We are considering having a meeting of chapter presidents over a
weekend this winter. Many have indicated that they would like to have a chance to meet with

other chapter presidents to share problems and experiences. Many presidents said that they found  
the meeting at the regional conference useful. You'll be getting a mailing on this soon, but in the  

meantime, let me know what you think. By the way, if your chapter has recently elected officers  
and hasn't let the National Office and me know, please be sure to do so.  

Newsletter editors: Please, please change my address on your mailing lists. My new address is  
502 W. Roscoe, Chicago, Ill. 60657.  

* * * * * *  

At the December 1-2 Executive Committee meeting in Chicago, Jackie Frost, Southern Regional  
Director, introduced an idea for expanding NOW to reach the large numbers of women and men  
who, statistics show, approve of the goals of the women’s movement. “At our present rate of  
growth, we will continue to add thousands of members each year through the organizing efforts  
of State Coordinators and Regional Directors. There is a clear need for paid field organizers to do  
the work of expanding NOW on a full-time basis. The field organizers would have direct respon-  
sibility to the National Board or Executive Committee, would set goals for increasing chapter  
strength and membership, would ‘know their territory.’” The idea will be presented to the  
February National Board meeting. Your Regional Directors would like to have your suggestions  
and reactions to this idea. Please contact them soon!  

* * * * * *  

FUNDRAISING IDEAS FROM GENE BOYER, FINANCE VICE PRESIDENT, NOW  

The month of February has several commemorative dates which make excellent occasions for  
staging fund-raising events:  

February 4, 1921 — Betty Friedan’s birthday  

February 15, 1820 — Susan B. Anthony’s birthday  

February 16, 1902 — Marian Anderson’s birthday  

February 22, 1892 — Edna St. Vincent Millay’s birthday  
(also the birthday of one G. Washington who may be known to some  
feminists)  

February 28, 1828 — Cynthia Leonard’s birthday (there’s one to look up!)  

Among the outstanding events held by NOW chapters for fund-raising purposes:  

— Luncheon honoring female legislators and other women in public life;  

— Testimonial dinner honoring early suffragists and/or current feminist notables;  

— Feminist art show and sale. (Both Dallas and Chicago chapters have recently held profitable  
art shows.)  

If needed — and if the chapter is willing to share proceeds — the National Treasury can make advance  
loans for working capital for innovative fund-raising events. Contact Finance Vice-President Gene  
Boyer, 218 Front St., Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916.  

* * * * * *  

ACCOUNTING & MANAGEMENT SERVICES  

The employment of professional management and accounting services are being considered for the  
national organization, and its sub-units as required. Services are to include payroll preparation,  
government reports, income and disbursement review, inventory and depreciation schedules,  
operating statements, auditing and financial counseling, etc. Services must include availability  

of on-site auditing in major cities where NOW has offices: Chicago, New York and Washington.  
Specifications may be obtained by writing to Gene Boyer, Finance Vice President, 218 Front Street,  
Beaver Dam, Wisconsin 53916.  

eg: Lees

REPORT ON BY-LAWS VOTE  
By Betty Newcomb, Coordinator, Mailed By-laws Ballot  

Your November issue of DO IT NOW contained the flash that both proposed National By-laws  
changes had failed. That neither received the 2/3 vote required by the National By-laws is shown  
in the detailed count below:  

Yes Votes No Votes Required Number Total  
for 2/3 Fewer Votes  
Than 2/3 Cast  
Delegate System 889 775 1110 221 1664  
Regional Elections 914 746 1106 192 1660  

A total of 1667 valid ballots were counted. (10 people voted on only one by-law). An additional  

120 ballots, declared invalid, were either unsigned, unidentifiable, or, when checked against the  
master membership list, were found to be cast by persons who had not paid their dues by July 31, ‘73.  
An additional 182 ballots were classified “challenged” for one of the following reasons: postmarked  
after 11/1/73, could not be found in the membership file, signatures were illegible with no other  
identifying marks. If all of the challenged ballots had been yea votes, both by-laws would still have  
failed because it would have been impossible for either by-law to receive the 2/3 yea vote necessary  
for a by-laws change. If there had been any possibility that they might have affected the final vote,  
further efforts would have been made to validate the challenged ballots.  

The by-laws committee made absolutely every effort to run a fair, smooth, voting process. Inevitably,  
some problems arose. While the National By-laws do not require such, the committee worked out a  
plan to allow secret ballots. The original copy submitted to DO IT NOW describing the ground rules  
for the election, including provisions for a totally secret ballot, had already been submitted, when  
Jo Ann Gardner notified the committee that our system did not follow Roberts Rules of Order Re-  
vised (pp. 356-357), and that according to our National By-laws (Sect. 14) we had to follow Roberts  
Rules or the vote could be declared legally invalid. A hurried telephone conversation exchange  
followed between the three committee members, Eleanor Smeal in Pittsburgh, Judy Lonnquist in  
Chicago, and me in Muncie, Indiana. One alternative from Roberts Rules allowed for a secret ballot;  
another described the procedure that we agreed upon. We gave up the benefits of the secret ballot  
primarily for financial reasons. The weight of the DO IT NOW issue carrying the by-laws change,  
even using special lightweight paper, was at the limit of the 8¢ rate if we included the one standard  
envelope required by Roberts Rules for the non-secret ballot. The procedure allowing for a secret  
ballot would have required in addition to an intricate ballot folding procedure, inclusion of two  
standard sized envelopes. The additional cost to NOW for supplying 30,000 additional envelopes  
and 30,000 times an additional 8¢ postage rate would have been something over $2,500. We  
reluctantly agreed to go with the non-secret ballot.  

If any of you have not already surmised, the re-stickable address labels were not used, as originally  
planned. Among the amusing anecdotes we will remember are some of the comments many members  
made regarding the non-stickiness of the tapes. Most of them were truly restrained and polite —  
totally unlike the popularly held image of feminists. Thanks to all of you for your patience. We  
really tried to make it easier for you.  

All NOW members owe a special thanks to the many people who helped us in the ballot-counting  
process — a terribly tedious procedure of counting, recounting, validating envelopes against a  

master file, deciphering signatures, stapling envelopes to ballots — all done in a successful effort  

to prepare properly for anyone who wished to check the ballot-counting procedure.  

If any of you wonder why the hurry and last-minute decisions, I will accept responsibility. I was  
adamant that the by-laws be dealt with as soon as possible. The new by-laws committee had to know  
the status of those proposed changes in time to process necessary by-laws changes to be presented

at the 1974 National Conference.

Betty Newcomb, Coordinator,  
Mailed By-laws Ballot

Ballots cast on the By-law membership issue will be maintained in the NOW National Office for six  
months from the November 10 NOW Board meeting. After that time, they will be destroyed per  
instructions of the NOW Legal Vice President. Any concerns on the ballots should be directed to  
the NOW National Office, 5 South Wabash, Suite 1615, Chicago, Illinois 60603.

ATTENTION: NOW MEMBERS  
Plea For Input To By-Laws Committee

The by-laws committee will meet sometime in January to prepare proposed by-laws changes for the  
consideration of the 1974 National Conference. For many of you, by-laws might seem incomprehensible,  
dull, irrelevant, or a drag. But they are very important. An organization’s by-laws shape the  
organization — its base of power, its flexibility or rigidity, and its constituency — that is, the kind of  
member it will attract. The by-laws committee will attempt to formulate proposals most nearly reflecting the wishes of the members. Please write to me and tell your views on possible NOW structure.  
You may want to direct your comments to any or all of the following areas:

Who should set program and/or policy for NOW — the members, the chapters, the board (total board  
or the executive board), the president? What number of persons should serve on the board — minimum,  
maximum? Should the board be primarily administrative, interpreting NOW policy and servicing the  
membership, or should it set policy, provide a forum for dissent? Should all board members be elected,  
or should some be appointed to provide regional or minority representation? Should some board  
members be elected regionally? What proportion mix — elected, appointed, regional, at large? Should  
regionally elected board members be representational only or should they be regional directors?  
Should regional boards be established? If yes, what functions should they perform? Should board  
terms be staggered? Should limits be placed on number of consecutive terms allowed? Should the  
vice-presidents be elected by responsibility, i.e. legal, legislative; PR, fundraising? Should those  

four responsibilities be given executive board status? Should other responsibilities be given executive  
board status? What should be the relationship between member, chapter, state, region, national?

Should budget priorities be set by the national board, or by the membership? What function should  
be served by the National Conference — reaffirmation of sisterhood, program setting, policy-making,  
attracting media attention? Should the voting at the National Conference be by delegates? What  
representation mix? Should the mailed by-laws ballot be preserved? If you voted against either of  
the recent by-laws changes, please tell us why you voted against them, what features of the proposals  
you rejected?

I have tried to present a broad range of possibilities for comment. If your pet cause has been omitted,  
truly, it was not intentional. The only bias the by-laws committee has is to attempt to reflect the  
wishes of the membership. The list above is a long one. Long responses will be appreciated, but not  
expected; nor will neatness count in the amount of attention your reply receives. Please let us hear  
from you. We cannot reflect the wishes of the membership unless we know them. Wilma Scott Heide  
will officially appoint the members of the new by-laws committee soon. Please send your replies to  
reach me no later than the end of the first week in February, 1974, for consideration by the by-laws  
committee.

Betty Newcomb, Coordinator,  
By-laws Committee

WOMEN AND HEALTH ACTION

A Report from Joan Goldstein,  
National Coordinator, NOW Women & Health Task Force

The National Task Force on Health defined as one of our goals the humanizing of physician  
attitudes towards women. In response to this concern, the Baltimore NOW Health Task Force  
has developed a program concept which attempts to open communication and dialogue between  
women and women physicians. During this experimental evening of panel and discussions,  

150 Baltimore women, many of whom were not members of NOW, but may have been later,  
were finally allowed to ask basic questions and receive unhurried answers on the all too  
mysterious body. Learning was a two-way street: physicians were surprised to hear of women’s  
experience with the profession and to recognize how little is shared between doctor and patient.  
This seemed like only a beginning. Requests were made for continuous sessions on a variety  

of subjects.

In recognition of the enormous need for health dialogue, information and education, the  
Baltimore County NOW Health Task Force has put together a kit of a model program on  
women’s health to serve as a guide for groups nationally. I see this as one prototype of program  
activities which NOW chapters could adapt throughout the country. If there are other concepts,  
please contact me so that we can share our experiences. Here’s the information:

A Model program on women’s health: How to organize a panel discussion on  
“Women’s Right to Health: Phases of Her Life.” Packet contains complete  
information on how to plan and succeed, step-by-step in 8 weeks, in sponsoring  
a panel discussion by four women doctors for an audience of 150 persons on  

a low budget. Kit includes sample letters to doctors, sample program, informa-  
tion on contents of discussion, moderator’s role, publicity, budget, and refresh-  
ments. Send $2.50 to Baltimore County NOW Health Task Force, P.O. Box 21,  
Sunshine Avenue, Kingsville, Md. 21087.

Nina Tassi, the Health chairperson, an energetic and creative woman, wrote in a letter to me:  
“I have an idea that you would find Baltimore refreshing to the spirit.” I did.

U. S. Supreme Court Reverts to Stone Age on Women & Public Accommodations

On November 5, 1973, the U. S. Supreme Court voted 8 to 1 (Douglas dissenting) to leave standing  
a decision upholding the right of a New Orleans hotel to refuse to serve women in its men’s grill.  
National Board member, Karen DeCrow, says, “This is a shocking and insulting decision for  
women. As the NOW Public Accommodations Week coordinator in 1968, I was convinced that  

in 1973, this was no longer an issue for NOW, for the women’s movement. I was mistaken.  
Apparently, the Supreme Court of the United States does not feel convinced that women are  
members of the public.

I suggest that every person reading DO IT NOW write to at least one, if not all eight, of the  
Justices who voted against our right to enter a place of public accommodation and be served therein.  
This is an unusual action to take — writing the court — and I suggest we keep the letters calm,  
polite, and short..... just to let them know how humiliated we are because of this decision.”  
For further information, write Karen DeCrow, 116 Benedict Avenue, Syracuse, N. Y. 13210.

— 10: —

CRITICAL! All 1973 members must pay their dues for 1974 by March 31. Any 1973 member  
who has not paid 1974 dues should do so immediately. Since NOW membership expires on  
March 31, it is important that members act immediately. Members of chapters should pay their  
dues directly to their chapter treasurer. At-large members should fill in the following form and  
return it with a check to: NOW National Office, 5 South Wabash, Suite 1615, Chicago, IL 60603.  

NAME  

ADDRESS  
CITY, STATE, ZIP  

O $10 Regular Member  O $50 Cooperating Member  

O $15 Contributing Member  O $100 Sponsoring Member  

O $25 Sustaining Member  O $1000 Life Member  

O $35 Supporting Member  O Special Membership*  

Combination 2.255750 *A “special” membership at $5 may be  

elected by those who cannot pay more.  

Please send me the name of my closest local Chapter —___—  
The label on the reverse side is incorrect. Please change as indicated  

KREGER ERE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE EHH EHH HEHEHE HKEHHRHEHHEHHHHRHHHHHHH HEHEHE  

SPANISH TRANSLATIONS OF NOW MATERIALS AVAILABLE SOON  

NOW’s Minority Women and Women’s Rights Task Force reports that Spanish translations of three  
NOW publications, VIVE LA DIFFERENCE, NOW STATEMENT OF PURPOSE, and excerpts of  
the NOW BILL OF RIGHTS, will soon be available from the NOW National Office. Minority  
Women and Women’s Rights Task Force Co-Coordinators Aileen Hernandez, Patsy Fulcher and  
Eleanor Spikes also report that they and NOW members Maxine Ussery, Jean Kresy, Jackie Bradford  
and Jessica Minor are founders of a new publishing company, Sapphire Publishing, San Francisco,  
with “70 Soul Secrets of Sapphire” recently off the presses. Task Force Co-Coordinators can be  
reached at 680 Beach Street, No. 346, San Francisco, Calif. 94109.  

KHER HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HHH HHH HEHEHE EHH EHH HHKHEHEHEHEHHHEHHHHHEHHEHHHHEHE  

FEMINIST PROGRAMMING SOUGHT  

Television and radio stations frequently ask NOW chapters for sources of feminist programming  
they can broadcast, says NOW FCC Task Force Coordinator Whitney Adams. “Therefore, we  
would like to compile a list for chapters for reference in such instances,” says Ms. Adams. “Please  
let us know of any feminist program or series which could be made available to stations.” Send  

a brief description of the program, name and address of the producer or owner of program rights,  
and the terms under which it can be made available to other stations to the NOW Public Informa-  
tion Office, 641 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022.  

EKER HEHEHE HHH HEHEHE HHHEHEEKHHHHHEe  

ee

FIRST CLASS MAIL  
U.S. POSTAGE  

PAID 8¢  
PERMIT No. 2992  

NW ©  

lier oe mai tape FIRST CLASS  

Chicago, Illinois 60649  

107000 01 091573  
Frances M. Doughty  
to ee ek Oks  

New York, NY 10001  

$e HE AEE HE IE EE EEE FE EE FE FE FE ESE FE FE FE HE FE TE TE FE JE FE ETE FEE FE FE FE FE ETE TE TE TE HE FE TE TE TE TE HE ETE TE HE HE EEE EE  

From: Wilma Scott Heide, NOW President:  

By vote of NOW Board, NOW is a member of the Women’s Coalition for the Third Century (WCTC)  
(women includes men) whose goals include empowerment of women. WCTC was developed as a  
feminist alternative to the American Revolution Bicentennial Commission (ARBC). We found the  
ARBC undemocratic, commercial, undemographic, and politicized. We will relate to the ARBC in  
order to impact it to move feminist orientation but develop projects for support via the WCTC.  
NOW has been asked to develop a brochure for WCTC that will focus on what's happening via  
feminism, celebrate women’s culture (real and potential). Examples of happenings and projects:  
national TV special in prime time; mobile community museums and/or road shows; women’s  
actions vis a’ vis art, literature, films, religion, child care, corporate actions, etc. etc. NOW members  
who want to develop brochure and/or work in continuing ways thru WCTC should contact:  

Ms. Patricia Budd Kepler, President (also NOW member)  
Women’s Coalition for the Third Century  

(Heide is V. P.) and  

Director, Ministerial Studies  

Harvard Divinity School  

45 Francis Avenue  

Cambridge, Mass. 02138  

a

WASHINGTON BLUE SHEET January, 1974

News from the NOW LEGISLATIVE OFFICE  
1107 National Press Building  
Washington, D. C. 20004  
(202) 347-2279  

ABORTION  
ANTI-ABORTION DEMONSTRATION  

Congressional offices are shoring up for an onslaught of 10,000 “right-to-lifers” coming to Washington  
for a January 22nd demonstration. On the anniversary of the Supreme Court abortion decision, they  
are planning a ring-around-the-Capitol to mourn aborted fetuses. They will flood the halls of Congress  
and deliver single red roses (to symbolize the fetus) to each Member of Congress.  

The “right-to-lifers” are building up momentum with their victories over the past year — victories  
attributable to a well-financed, high-pressure lobbying effort.  

ACTION  

It is urgent that we let Congress know that we feel just as strongly in favor of a woman’s right to  
choose as “r-t-l” does in opposition. VISIT YOUR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS IN THEIR HOME  
OFFICES WHILE THEY ARE HOME FOR THE HOLIDAYS — ESPECIALLY DURING THE  
WEEK OF JANUARY 14-18.  

NO ABORTIONS FOR THE POOR  

On November 30th, Senator James Buckley (R-NY) introduced an amendment to the Social Security  
Amendments of 1973 which prohibited use of Medicaid funds for performance of abortions. The  
amendment was accepted by Senator Russell Long and passed in the Senate by voice vote. Since the  
House bill did not contain the language, the SSA’s will go to a conference committee for final  
version. The conference committee will be composed of members of the Senate Finance and House  
Ways and Means Committee. Latest word as of December 21st was that hearings on the Buckley  
Amendment will take place in February. See your Chapter Legislative Coordinator for more details.  

Little-by-little, the so-called “right-to-life” forces are hacking away at the hard-fought right to  
control our own bodies we won through the January 1973 Supreme Court decision. By prohibiting  
public funds (Medicaid and foreign aid) and legal aid services to be used for abortions and by allowing  
hospitals to decide whether or not to perform abortions, the opposition may succeed in eliminating  
medically safe, legal abortions to the poor both in this country and abroad.  

ACTION  

The situation is critical. We cannot afford another “r-t-l” victory. EACH AND EVERY NOW  
MEMBER SHOULD WRITE TO SENATOR RUSSELL LONG (D-La., Chairman, Senate Finance  
Committee) AND TO REPRESENTATIVES WILBUR MILLS (D-Ark., Chairman, House Ways  
and Means Committee) AND AL ULLMAN (D-Oreg., next in line for Mills’ job) TO PROTEST  
THE DISCRIMINATION AGAINST POOR WOMEN, THROUGH PROHIBITION OF FUNDS  
FOR ABORTION UNDER MEDICAID. SEND COPY TO YOUR OWN SENATORS AND  
CONGRESSPERSON.  

SOUR NOTE  

The Helms Amendment to the Foreign Assistance Act was retained in conference.

FLEXIBLE HOURS EMPLOYMENT ACT

The Flexible Hours Employment Act (S 2022), a bill which would require that within 5 years of
enactment, 10% of the positions at each and all levels in all Executive Agencies of the Federal
Government be made available on a flexible hours basis has been introduced in the Senate by
John Tunney (D-CA). Bella Abzug (D-NY) has introduced a similar bill in the House (HR 9699).

Flexible hours is defined as part-time employment such as four hours per work day or one to four
days per week, etc. A flexible hours job is intended to be a permanent, responsible position with
standard civil service protections and prorated fringe benefits. Another section of the bill requires
the Secretary of Labor to promote expansion of flexible hours employment practices by all public
and private employers.

We feel the bill could especially benefit parents by making it possible for both to contribute to
the rearing of their children and to the income of the family.

WRITE TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SENATE POST OFFICE AND CIVIL SERVICE COMMIT-
TEE, SENATOR GALE McGEE (D-WYO) WITH A COPY TO YOUR OWN SENATORS,
URGING FAVORABLE COMMITTEE ACTION.

POWELL HEARINGS — EEOC

On Wednesday, December 12th, NOW testified at the hearings on confirming John Powell as
Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Testifying for NOW, Ann Scott
used the opportunity to question the criteria on which an EEOC Chairman is chosen. In light
of the Steelworkers’ case, she asked whether the EEOC would continue to take a hard stance
on back pay. She also questioned what Powell’s stance would be as EEOC Chairman on equal
pension benefits.

RAPE BILL

The Rape Bill, which we first reported on in November, has since been introduced in the House
by Congressman John Heinz (D-PA) where it has 37 House co-sponsors. The Legislative Office
has sent a letter to members of the House asking for support and co-sponsorship of the bill
(HR 11520). We urge you to do likewise with your own Representative.

The bill has 17 Senate co-sponsors, 6 of whom are on the Labor and Public Welfare Committee
which must act on the bill before it goes to the floor. The following members of the Com-

mittee had not co-sponsored at the time of this writing (December 6th): Dominick (R-CO),
Eagleton (D-MO), Hathaway (D-ME), Javits (R-NY), Nelson (D-WI), Pell (D-RI), Schweiker (R-PA),
Stafford (R-VT), Taft (R-OH), Williams (D-NJ).

IF ONE OF THESE SENATORS IS FROM YOUR STATE, WRITE, URGING CO-SPONSORSHIP.

NOW STUDENTS AND PROFESSORS
The Legislative Office needs interns for 1974. Contact Mary Vogel, Office Manager, if interested.

NOTICE TO NOW CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

If you have not done so already, please send by postcard: (1) name (2) address (3) business
phone (4) home phone (5) chapter Congressperson of your chapter’s Legislative Task Force
Coordinator to BOTH the Legislative Office and the National Office. IT IS IMPORTANT THAT
ALL CHAPTERS BE REPRESENTED ON THE LEGISLATIVE TASK FORCE.

UNRATIFIED STATES CONVENING IN 1974 SESSION LENGTH PRIMARY/GENERAL

ELECTION

ARIZONA January 8 Unlimited September/November  
FLORIDA April 2 60 Calendar Days September/November  
GEORGIA January 8 40 Calendar Days August/November  
ILLINOIS January 8-11 Recess until April March/November  
INDIANA January 5 April May/November  
LOUISIANA May 13 60 Calendar Days None  
MAINE January 2 Special Session June/November  
MISSISSIPPI January 8 60 Calendar Days None  
MISSOURI January 8 April August/November  
MONTANA January 7 60 Legislative Days June/November  
OHIO January 2 Unlimited May/November  
OKLAHOMA January 8 90 Legislative Days August/November  
SOUTH CAROLINA January 8 Unlimited June/November  
VIRGINIA January 9 60 Calendar Days 1973  

MEN FOR ERA

ARIZONA MEN FOR ERA ILLINOIS MEN FOR ERA  

STUART HERZOG JORDAN MILLER  

1433 E. Broadway Newsclip, 176 W. Adams Bidg., Box 1359  

Tucson, Arizona 85719 Chicago, Illinois 60690  

John Meuser presented “A Man’s View of Women’s Liberation” as part of Charlotte NOW’s “You’re On”  
program in October. In part he said: Men should support feminism, because feminism supports them.  

It is a movement for men’s liberation as well as women’s liberation. For example, as long as job discrimination  
against women is allowed to persist, a man will continue to find himself the principal wage earner  
of the family and will be forced to work until retirement simply because he has greater earning power  
than his spouse. If the salaries for men and women were equitable, a couple able to live on one income  
could share the burden of family support — each taking time off to pursue other activities. (See Flexible  
Hours Bill in Blue Sheet).  

A SUBMARINE COMMANDER JOINS WOMEN’S LIB — article by Babette Ashby in Family Circle,  
November issue, about NOW member Commander Scott Chester who commands the USS Pollack in  
Charleston, S.C. Fran Chester introduced her husband, Scott, into NOW and both are active members  
of Charleston NOW.  

CATHOLIC ORGANIZATIONS SUPPORTING THE ERA  

“The National Board of the Leadership Conference of Women Religious took a stand on the ERA at their  
February meeting. With only one dissent, the Major Superiors who come from 15 different sections of  
the country favor the passage of the amendment. Sr. Margaret Brennan, IHM, President of the Conference,  
said that the board members had studied the question and were aware of some of the problems that might  
arise and also some of the fears that have been generated in connection with the amendment. ‘We need  
to address ourselves to those problems and fears as they arise, but not at the expense of the passage of  
such a good and important thing as the ERA,” Sr. Margaret commented. She added that Catholic women  
face a huge education task in regard to this amendment.” The following statement concerning ERA was  
issued by 18 members of the National Board of LCWR: ‘We believe in the equal rights of women because  
we believe in the equal rights of persons. We stand for concomitant safeguards against any interpretation  
of the Equal Rights Amendment that would be destructive of persons’ from press release of February  
23, 1973. Other Catholic organizations which have endorsed the ERA are: St. Joan’s Alliance,  
National Coalition of American Nuns, and NETWORK.  

THE CHRISTIAN CHURCH ENDORSES THE ERA  

“The Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) endorsed today the Equal Rights Amendment and called  
for increased participation of women in their own ranks. The resolutions were passed by more than  
5,000 delegates to the church’s Third General Assembly, October 31, 1973.

THE ERA IS MOVING AND LOOKIN’ GOOD!! IN 14 UNRATIFIED STATES CONVENING IN ‘74

ARIZONA boasts one of the first men’s organizations for the ratification of the ERA. Terry Korn is the
new co-coordinator for ERA. Terry Korn, 6801 E. Opatas, Tucson, 85715.

FLORIDA’s houses have both prefiled ERA resolutions. NOW Fundraiser mail-out December: goal $10,000.
ERA State Coalition formed.

GEORGIA’s ERA Rally parade is planned Saturday, January 12th, following the opening of the Georgia
Legislature. Groups participating in the march will include UAW & CWA. Contact Martha Gaines, NOW ERA
Coordinator, 2444 E. Adina Drive, N.E., Atlanta, 30324.

ILLINOIS NOW strategy aims for March 19th, the date for the primaries. The tactic is direct action lobbying
to pressure legislators to change their stand before the primary. The legislature will be in recess from mid-
January to mid-April to allow candidates to campaign. Illinois NOW members will be campaigning for the
ERA at the same time.

INDIANA’s new ERA has been assigned to the Government Affairs Committee with no Republican sponsorship.
A state ERA bill was introduced by a Republican and will be submitted to the same committee. The
Government Affairs Committee will be meeting in December to consider both bills.

LOUISIANA’s new State Legislative coordinator elected in November, Janet Schoer, P.O. Box 10113,
Southern University, Baton Rouge, 70813, will be directing ERA for May session.

MAINE is the first state to mail in PAR’s. Referendum being considered. Legal precedent doesn’t recognize state
referendum as part of the Constitutional Amendment ratification process. Documentation of this precedent was
requested by Legislative Office to be mailed to Maine leaders from Senate Subcommittee on Constitutional
Amendments. If this happens in your state, please contact Legislative Office immediately!

MISSISSIPPI NOW’s SLC, Jean Muirhead, was consulted by Mississippi Home Economists in the drafting of
an ERA resolution for their state convention in November. The Board voted 43-46 against endorsement of
the ERA. Mississippi endorsement is coming!

MISSOURI NOW has a three-pronged strategy ready to implement: (1) coffee meetings, (2) door-to-door
petitioning, (3) canvassing in selected districts. A NOW State Conference is scheduled for January 12-13 in
Kansas City, emphasizing organizing and training for ERA. Job-endorsed ERA Resolution presented by
Newspaper Guild President, Robert Steinke.

MONTANA’s ERA should be reported out of the Rules Committee during the first week of the session and
Senate action is then expected. The Governor declared December 3-10 as Women’s Rights Week. The ERA
Coalition has sponsored debates, meetings, and fundraisers for the ERA.

OHIO State Coalition ERA Conference, January 12th. NOW Regional Director Kathy Rand will act as a
resource person for the organizing workshop. Ann Scott, V.P. Legislation, will direct the Lobbying
Workshop. The Coalition is organized in 33 of 53 counties in Ohio. Betty Carroll, NOW ERA coordinator,
is traveling around the state, meeting with NOW Chapters to set up timelines for training, lobbying, and
head counts. Meetings with Senators have been going on for the past month. Columbus NOW reports $150
profit on newspaper drive for the ERA fund.

OKLAHOMA NOW Shawnee President, Wanda Peltier, and AFL-CIO President, Henry Likes, appeared on
Talk Show for the ERA: NOW Astrid Clark and Clete Deathridge, member of the Governor’s Commission
on the Status of Women, debated Lana Tyree, Oklahoma Attorney (who testified against ERA in Idaho,
Utah, North Dakota, Arizona, and Oklahoma legislatures) and Betty Blake at the Eastern Oklahoma County
Democratic Club December 4th. A 24-3 win for ERA!!

SOUTH CAROLINA’s first day of the Bicentennial celebration, NOW members met the reenactment parade
of the first State Legislature with Broad Street painted red, white, and blue, ERA NOW! and placards reading
“No taxation without equal rights,” “Betsy Ross could do more than sew,” “Finish the Revolution,” “Where
is Rebecca Mott?” (SC colonial heroine).

VIRGINIA’s Legislature special “lawyers’ committee” is presently studying the ERA’s effect on Virginia law.
NOW is working very hard on the assumption that the Task Force report will say that the ERA will have no
harmful effect. Report due December 30th. According to Elise Heinz, SLC, Virginia state election returns
show that pro-ERA candidates tended to win. A clear majority of next year’s freshmen delegates is expected
to vote in favor of ratification.

"Do It Now Monthly Newsletter of the National Organization for  
Women January, 1974." Do It Now, Jan. 1974, pp. [1]+. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/EQALKP648125406/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark  
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.