NATIONAL

CAGANIZA  
FOR WOMEN  

February, 1974  

EDITOR: Dian Terry  
MONTHLY NEWSLETTER OF THE  

NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN  

andies 8né  
Gormnated society. and finally, out of the roaring  
° . ° a  

Ti  
i}  
i  
if  

the Class of Women, Thy comments See re No! .  
a under  
set up by John F. Kennedy fed * Tex To  

a  

ant  
rl  
sa hs  
=  
=  
=  
_ Ss  
=  

)  
u  

leadership of Eleanor Roosevelt and  

iN  
\  

By  

Washington, D.C.  

extremely competent women, no one seemed to know  
what to do next. It was at this point  
that Betty Friedan, author of The Feminine Mystique, gathered together a group of the women Marriage  

who then unanimously decided that the only solution  
was to form a separate civil rights organization dedicated to achieving full equality for women. Once the noble cause was defined, the crux of the National  
problem verbalized and the group, christened  

>  

NOW could begin to take action. —  
the first course of action they took was to write to  
changing sine meme the  

§  

igs  

NYG  

: Land  
frat Reserve boats  
Washington, D.C. more than 300 men and women, ~ phoma ld meet  
from all over the nation and every walk of life  
came together for the first organized conference in the  
gown of fan between And  
its. The password was “action” and pay to date  
no phase of sex discrimination was to go unexplored.  
Committees were established to deal with  
women's problems — employment, politics, image,  
property, wine, rent, and more.  

>  

Budget of 7 cory ae ete seems inal  
be sure of June &, 1973 akn of heparan tary  
that howe A ; Pah are ee Tad  
= fae oo nt Cee aes Yorks  
+ anaes amarnes bene  
| Women Bots eto ye Rept  
Bias arris ao Ee ANG entry whee fot Pans Naseen eoremmen Ne  
Coe c Sorewd Says ee Petar’ © women nec? Rent hex ape  
Park ent Corre 32 ot re, York Croat 0 Mhaet of a Preceres coma © mete ee  
oppess wo bes wcag Ome the aneen t pd nd wettane =~  
Semen have tere re ie ong | Oa than mm pred of cea?  

Women Exploited aa  
NOW Unit Protests 2s: Feminism in the city  

me  
\ 4 ooree ’ ee * :  
win ea tects See oe prov vce As Individual Discovery, Opportunity  
errr had cus eo wey Tee Wee Your workers of the Chet ty PAT wucox Scron Tarr, eee :4 a  
we ert ¥ we «th Rage, é  
cia” Beart LA Soe ee ee teres Sees 5 Pet, Phone Hike ii the $12,000-a-year, F  
Cae ress Su ees, « Saeeririn age aac ne © Si oc TE, Gra el SAMIR rey Comoe Cg, BS do r family  

Pare nied - 02 “Conate Reogue borrowed 5 Neseeling Mrsinne ie mare to (het 1 cares’ tea Loree NOE 8 caret aan, EEOC) | Mt oectng —.  

”* ene bate, MAL. le Sark ot damagona |e 8 Ge @ i 42 pee re ag eal harare of meres tthe Leas sad Or  
‘ atte ‘eae avon agent Mein et Gaal?" L de Kent” |9t_ whe the Reaxy 20  

we rv or  
ety ony os re Sse  
watt vai eee \ AS Ral ie heseing Away Me  
ve ee a ay Tad ST Prem Bene. Oe Fm net Ale ce taeqme ste Geom s omy consamers oon ~t ane te  
cee Ol a a ae divor ee M8 RS wee MN manner caag” PAM 8 Sesinlerie my SNOB  
t . “ole wh the Me visbel tee T) + eee 2  
rt  

2s" ‘NOW to Protest Sex in Toys’:5 (SSS PS  
. = patented  

be  

tl  

ra  

i  
is  
fj  

Sa] == Le ey xa  
emi vessctoney  

i  
d  

4  

Stmts aoe ermes  
eter  

we  

>  

il  

.  

;  

4  

He}  

{  

t  

i  
I  
44  
i  

y  
Hi  
iD  

E  
a7  
as. OYEREETELY  

silt  
ahs  

i  

Hi  
Hee i  

re  

a]  
|  

Hy  
‘ip  

fi  
]  

i  

rt  

fit}  
L  
ell  
fill  
F  

il  
Hi  
i  
ti  
it  
Hf  
iY  
lf  
j  

i  
i  

=  
i  
iff  
Ut  
i  
ie  
P|  
iF

In The NOW News...

The 200th anniversary of the Boston Tea Party was celebrated in new ways by a number of NOW
chapters, all calling for ratification of the ERA. “No Taxation without Equality” was the 20th
Century Boston Tea Party cry..... NOW member Jeanne Cordova’s new book, “Sexism: It’s
a Nasty Affair” has been published by New Way Books of Los Angeles..... Nassau NOW
reports great success with the chapter’s legislative questionnaire sent to candidates for local
office, with results having received wide coverage in the area press — the chapter is planning

a new questionnaire on abortion..... NOW National Compliance Task Force Coordinator
Lynne Darcy signed the complaint against the New Jersey State Division on Civil Rights for

a group of the Division’s women employees. The EEOC has found “reasonable cause” for the
women’s complaint of job discrimination ..... Tulsa NOW picketed the U.S. Jaycees’ national
training seminar to protest the awarding of federal funds to the organization which excludes
women from membership..... Columbus NOW reports many activities in addition to working
for ratification of the ERA, including an active Rape Task Force and recent actions protesting
discrimination due to sexual orientation ..... National Board member Karen DeCrow inter-
viewed psychiatrist Thomas S. Szasz in two programs televised in Syracuse, with Dr. Szasz
giving his first TV statement on the women’s movement. Copies of the tapes are available for
rent or sale from Karen DeCrow, 116 Benedict Avenue, Syracuse, N.Y. 13210..... Sexuality
and Lesbianism Task Force Coordinator Sidney Abbott announces new research on lesbian
mothers being conducted by Barbara Bryant, School of Social Work, California State University,
Sacramento, CA 95819. The questionnaire, for which correspondence will be confidential

and can be anonymous, was developed in cooperation with NOW member Del Martin and
Payits Liyohi..... Oklahoma City NOW presented a Barefoot and Pregnant Award to a local
McDonald's with the result of improved hiring of women..... NOW Education Task Force
Coordinator Anne Grant has received an award from Mademoiselle magazine for her production
of “Our North American Foremothers”..... NOW member Adah Maurer, Berkeley NOW
notes that no women have applied for a position of Superintendent of Schools in Berkeley —
similar reports have been received from other areas — isn’t the news reaching NOW members?

Judith Kaplan of New York NOW presented an editorial reply on WOR—TV in response
to the station’s congratulations of the Elks for ending discrimination against minorities.

Ms. Kaplan pointed out that the Elks still exclude women from membership..... NOW
member Lillian Dreyer passed along a Junior Achievement brochure titled “Your Daughter,
the President.” The only problem is that the brochure ends with “Your daughter may never
become President (But, with a little luck, she might marry one).” Do they never learn?.....
NOW member Nancy Seifer’s new book, “Absent from the Majority: Working Class Women
in America,” has been published by the National Project on Ethnic America of the American
Jewish Committee, New York. NOW President Wilma Scott Heide was a participant in a
recent conference at which the book was introduced..... “Sex Stereotyping in the Toy
Department” was the title of the speech presented to the Toy Manufacturers of America’s
annual meeting by Joan Nicholson, Former National Coordinator for the Image of Women
in the Media Task Force. Following the meeting which was attended by over 200 toy
manufacturers, TMA distributed Ms. Nicholson’s presentation to its full membership.....

1974 NOW National Conference Update

WHO: All NOW members. WHAT: Come together for new program ideas, exhibits,

elections, special events, spotlight on issues, ideas, NOW history. WHERE: Albert Thomas
Convention Center and the Rice Hotel, Houston, Texas. WHEN: Memorial Day Weekend,
Saturday-Monday, May 25-27, 1974. Registration fee: $15.00.

TO VOTE AT THE NOW NATIONAL CONFERENCE, ALL MEMBERS MUST HAVE
DUES PAID IN FULL BY FEBRUARY 28.

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR CHILD CARE! NOW President Wilma Scott Heide says
men are particularly welcome for this fun experience.

KANSAS CITY NOW MEMBER SANDRA BYRD is chairing the new Transportation Com-
mittee, created to explore means of less expensive Conference travel for NOW members.
Bids for transportation arrangements to the Conference are now being accepted. Contact:
Sandra Lee Byrd, 3201 Northeast 59th Terrace, Kansas City, MO 64119.

RESOLUTIONS FOR NATIONAL CONFERENCE

Proposed resolutions submitted by March 1 to Mary Lynn Myers, Coordinator of Resolutions Com-
mittee, will be summarized in a Conference Survival Manual. This manual will be sent to all pre-
registrants for the Conference.

You are encouraged to send proposals to relevant task force coordinators or chapters for their review
and support before sending them to Mary Lynn, since first priority will be given to Task Force/Chap-
ter resolutions, then regions and states.

Procedures for resolutions as voted by NOW’s Executive Committee indicated:

“It is recommended that all Chapters thoroughly discuss the resolutions prior to the
Conference so that members can come to reasoned decisions concerning them. In order

to deal with the press of events at the Convention, the resolutions committee is empowered
to bring to the Executive Committee guidelines for emergency resolutions. It is further
recommended that resolutions not only deal with how to change the centers of power in

this country, but also include how to implement these actions at the local level. If individuals
wish to have resolutions brought to the Convention, they may bring their resolutions to the
chapter or task force for consideration and adoption first.”

The National Planning Committee has further decided that the Conference will first deal with resolu-
tions submitted to Mary Lynn before March 1, and it will then consider those submitted to her before
May 1.

Resolutions are to be succinctly stated, or will be summarized by Mary Lynn.
Send resolutions before March 1 to: Mary Lynn Myers, 1312 East Church, Pierre, South Dakota 57501.

Remember — our bylaws provide for a nominating committee of 7 members. Four mem-
bers are appointed by the President with Board approval. Three are elected at the National

Conference. Get your forms for filing from: Judith Meuli, Nominating Committee Co-
ordinator, 1126 HiPoint Street, Los Angeles, CA 90035. Hurry — February 20 deadline!

NOW PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE MOVES TO NEW LOCATION

As of February 4, 1974, the NOW Public Information Office will be located at 527 Madison Avenue,  
New York, N. Y. 10022. The telephone number, (212) 755-4587, will remain the same. Please  
make note of this address change for communications with the NOW Public Information Office,  
including chapter newsletter mailing lists and news items for DO IT NOW. Dian Terry continues  

as Director and Carole Epstein as Public Information Office Assistant. NOW chapters’ posters,  
buttons, etc. are being sought for display in the NOW Public Information Office.  

OTHER NEWS FROM THE NOW PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE: Sample copies of a new  
publication, a reprint of the highly favorable article about NOW from Woman’s World Magazine  
are being sent to all Chapter Presidents. Orders for more copies should be placed with the NOW  
National Office, 5 South Wabash Avenue, Chicago, Ill. 60603.  

A list of slide shows and films available from NOW Chapters, as well as commercial firms and  
other sources, has been compiled by the NOW Public Information Office. The list gives a brief  
description of each slide show or film, along with rental or purchase costs. For a copy of the  
list, or to add to it, write the NOW Public Information Office, 527 Madison Avenue, New York,  
N. Y. 10022.  

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF NON-SEXIST BOOKS for Girls and Boys has been published by  

SAN DIEGO NOW. Most of the books listed were published in 1970 or later. For one copy,  

send 25¢ plus stamped, self-addressed envelope (5 copies, $1.00; 11 copies, $2.00; 18 copies,  
$3.00) to San Diego NOW Education Task Force, P. O. Box 22264, San Diego, Calif. 92122.  

Bulk rates are available on request.  

LOS ANGELES NOW’S EDUCATION COMMITTEE has produced a multi-media, conscious-  
ness-raising program about sexist education of youngsters at home and school. It spans the  
ages of 3 to 18, illustrating how typical American socialization leaves girls with low self-  
esteem and builds sexist attitudes in boys. The program is appropriate for teacher, counselor  
and parent audiences. The 35-page script and 50 slides are available for sale at $18.50, with  
profits to be used by the Education Committee of Los Angeles NOW for additional action  
projects. Contact: Marilyn Ellas, Education Committee Coordinator, NOW Center, 8864 West  
Pico Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif. 90035.  

ST. LOUIS NOW has initiated a project with the goal of Susan B. Anthony’s birthday being  
proclaimed a national holiday. Further information will be forthcoming in mailings to  
NOW Chapter Presidents.

NOW POWER COMES TO THE STEEL INDUSTRY

In cooperation with National Compliance Task Force Coordinator Lynne Darcy and other NOW  
officers, Chicago NOW and Southwestern Pennsylvania NOW Chapters have initiated actions  
seeking to improve the status of women in the steel industry.

The actions followed closely press reports that the steel companies’ plans to correct job discrimina-  
tion within the industry did not include women. In discussions with the Justice Department,  
NOW Legal Vice President Judith Lonnquist was assured that the problems of women are and will  
be included in all negotiations with the steel industry.

“Since women are presently less than 5% of the workers in the steel industry, we are particularly  
concerned that the hiring goals for women at all job levels be set sufficiently high to redress this  
gross imbalance,” Ms. Lonnquist said. “We shall continue to watchdog the settlement and will not  
tolerate anything but the best possible pact. If the agreement is inadequate, we shall take what-  
ever steps we can to see that the rights of women are protected.”

Chicago NOW sponsored a public meeting in Gary, Indiana with women of United Steelworkers  
Local 1066 — “an important first step toward joint action of NOW and union women” (Chicago  
NOW newsletter, ACT NOW). The meeting, attended by many Chicago NOW members, National  
Board members Mary Jean Collins-Robson and Kathy Rand, as well as representatives of the EEOC,  
the Department of Defense, Gary Human Relations Commission, the Indiana Civil Rights Com-  
mission and the Wage and Hour Division, was highly successful. Over thirty union women of those  
in attendance responded to NOW’s call for a committee to take action on the job discrimination  
complaints aired at the meeting and to plan further actions.

Southwestern Pennsylvania NOW Chapters, in separate but related actions, have filed a complaint  
against U.S. Steel, following attempts at negotiation by the NOW Chapters.

In negotiation sessions, the Pennsylvania chapters report, officials of U.S. Steel stated that manage-  
ment policy is to award fringe benefits differentially on the basis of sex. When the NOW repre-  
sentatives pointed out that this is prohibited by Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, one company  
officer said, “The law is absurd.”

“This is the third major challenge to established discrimination against women in Pittsburgh  
that NOW has initiated. The Pittsburgh Press and the University of Pittsburgh ultimately  
learned that the laws against sex discrimination apply to them,” commented Jo Ann Evans  
Gardner, NOW Eastern Regional Co-Director, implying that the steel companies will also learn.

The Pennsylvania NOW members also met with officers of Jones and Laughlin Steel Corp. with  
more positive results.

Both Chicago NOW and the Southwestern Pennsylvania NOW Chapters received excellent press  
coverage resulting from the steel industry actions, with articles appearing in local press as well as  
Associated Press articles with national circulation.

NOW TASK FORCE NEWS.....

Coordinator of National Task Forces, Mary Jean Collins-Robson, will report on exciting results  
from her recent survey of chapter programs in the next issue of DO IT NOW.

ARE YOU INTERESTED IN FORMING TASK FORCES ON:

WOMEN & PRISONS, AND LAW ENFORCEMENT? National Board Member Geri Kenyon  
would like to hear from you regarding the following: (1) Workshops, symposia or presentations  
for the 1974 NOW National Conference to deal with these issues and implications raised by  
them, with special reference to developing and proposing national and local actions, legislation,  
research, publications, etc. (2) Assessment of interest within NOW for the possible development  
of a new Task Force to deal with these issues — tentatively titled Task Force on Criminal Justice.  
Contact: Geri Kenyon, Department of Social Science, Michigan Technological University,  
Houghton, Michigan 49931. (906) 487-2113.

PROSTITUTION WORKSHOP? Jean Withers is seeking reactions from NOW members on a  
possible workshop for the 1974 NOW National Conference, with the goal of recommending policy  
on the issue for consideration at the conference. Informational presentations are needed.  
Contact: Jean Withers, 2317 Franklin East, Seattle, Washington 98102.

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

NURSES NOW, currently a Pennsylvania NOW state task force, would like to hear from NOW  
members in other states to assess the possibilities of becoming a national task force. For more  
information, and to add your name to NURSES NOW’s national mailing list, contact: Linda  
Hollier, NURSES NOW, P. O. Box 5156, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206.

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

Effective December 31, 1973, Joan Nicholson resigned as National Coordinator of the Image  
of Women in the Media Task Force. She plans to devote full-time efforts to writing and  
lecturing about women and the women’s movement. Queries about the Image Task Force  
should be directed to the NOW National Office, 5 South Wabash, Chicago, IL 60603 until  

a new coordinator is appointed.

COMMEMORATIVE STAMP  
Please send names of women you think should be commemorated to:

Nan Wood  
1525 East 53rd Street  
Chicago, IL 60615

NOW LDEF PUBLIC SERVICE AD CAMPAIGN BREAKS $3 MILLION MARK!

NOW in its precedent and record-breaking seventh month, the NOW LDEF Public Service Ad  
Campaign has reached a media value of over 3 million dollars. The ads have appeared on  
some 249 radio stations in 48 states, 262 television stations in 47 states, approximately 36  
public broadcast stations and even the BBC.

Print ads have been published in many national magazines and other print media, with a value  
of almost $500,000. The magazines include Time, Newsweek, Saturday Review/World,  
Nation’s Business, MS., The New Yorker, Sports Illustrated and many others.

The response from the advertising world continues to be highly favorable as is the reaction  
from the general public. Letters still swamp the NOW LDEF Office in New York, reports  
Ad Campaign Coordinator Midge Kovacs, with over 97% of them favorable.

HOW TO DEAL WITH RIGHT-TO-LIFERS was the subject of a mid-January conference for  
Capitol Hill staffers held in Washington, D. C. NOW Legislative Vice President Ann Scott and  
Reproduction and Population Task Force Coordinator Jan Liebman were major participants  

in the training conference. Full background on legal, ethical, medical and human rights questions  
on abortion were provided. Further information is available from Jan Liebman, P. O. Box 40542,  
Palisades Station, Washington, D. C. 20016.  

* * * * * * * *  

REMINDER TO FINANCE COORDINATORS AND/OR TREASURERS OF ALL CHAPTERS,  
STATES AND REGIONS FROM GENE BOYER, NOW FINANCE VICE PRESIDENT:  

Please return the completed questionnaires separately mailed to you in January on “Sharing  
Financial Experiences” to Gene Boyer, Vice President, Finance, 218 Front Street, Beaver Dam,  
Wis. 53916. (414) 887-1078. Please include operating statement and 1974 budget. Absolute  
deadline date is March 15, 1974.  

* * * * * * * *  

WASHINGTON, D. C. NOW, with the Gay Activists Alliance and the Federation of Students,  
worked and lobbied hard for passage of the Human Rights Law (Title 34) of the District of  
Columbia. The intent of the District of Columbia Council, in passing this new law, was “to secure  
an end, in the District of Columbia, to discrimination for any reason other than that of individual  
merit, including, but not limited to discrimination by reason of race, color, religion, national origin,  
sex, age, marital status, personal appearance, sexual orientation, family responsibilities, matricula-  
tion, political affiliation, physical handicap, source of income, and place of business,” in housing,  
commercial space, places of public accommodation, educational institutions, public service and  
employment.  

* * * * * * * *  

AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN CORPORATE NEWSLETTERS was the subject of a presentation  

by Joan Nicholson, former NOW Image of Women in the Media Task Force Coordinator, before  
the Long Island Communicators Association. The thrust of the speech was that employee  
publications can and should do two things for women employees: (1) provide detailed and  
positive information about affirmative action programs, and (2) give women employees “visibility”  
in company publications. As a follow-up action, Joan suggests that Chapter Compliance and  

Image Committees survey newsletters of local companies for possible input by NOW chapters.  

* * * * * * * *  

NOW’S WOMEN AND THE ARTS TASK FORCE will sponsor a women writers’ conference later  
in 1974. Anaïs Nin is honorary consultant of the event, with coordinating committee members  
Valerie Harms, Rochelle Holt, Donna Ippolito and Miriam Arquelles. For further information,  
contact Valerie Harms, 10 Sunset Hill, Norwalk, Conn. 06851.  

* * * * * * * *

WASHINGTON BLUE SHEET

News from the NOW LEGISLATIVE OFFICE February 1974  
1107 National Press Building  
Washington, D.C. 20004  
(202) 347-2279  

ABORTION  
OPPOSITION ACTIVITIES  

The December 14, 1973 issue of “The Greene Sheet,” the National Right To Life Committee, Inc.  
newsletter, claims that three more Senators have announced their support for a “mandatory human  
life amendment.”  

The three Senators are: William Proxmire (D-Wis), Walter D. Huddleston (D-Ky), and  
Roman Hruska (R-Neb).  

TURNING THEM AROUND  

None of the three have publicized their support for a “mandatory human life amendment,” but we  
do believe “The Greene Sheet’s” claim that these Senators have promised some sort of support  

in response to constituent lobbying is a fact. However, none of the three are a lost cause for us  
and, in fact, prospects for turning them around are good if we put all of our efforts into it.  

Senator Huddleston has been supportive towards women’s rights in the past as a member of the  
Kentucky State Senate. Our feeling is that he is succumbing to the very intense pressure that  

the compulsory pregnancy people have put on him, such as the December 10th home office visit  

of a delegation of citizens and local officials. Senator Proxmire is known as a “liberal” in Congress.  
If we can flood their offices with mail, telegrams, and phone calls, we may be able to persuade  
them to support the Supreme Court decision. Likewise with Senator Hruska.  

ACTION  

IT IS URGENT THAT EVERY NOW MEMBER WRITE TO ALL THREE SENATORS IMMEDIATELY  
(GET A FRIEND TO WRITE TOO)! Don’t depend on a chapter letter to relieve you of the personal  
responsibility for writing, and don’t fail to write because you're not a constituent. We have the  

capacity to deliver over 50,000 strong if we each act. Sit down and write or telegraph today! AND  
SEND CARBONS OR OTHER COPIES TO YOUR OWN SENATORS AND REPRESENTATIVES  
WHILE YOU'RE AT IT. See September Blue Sheet for suggestions on arguments to use.  

LONG-RANGE ACTION  

The National Reproduction Task Force Coordinator, Jan Liebman, and the Legislative Office are  
developing an abortion kit which will be mailed to your chapter’s Legislative Task Force Coordinator  
and Reproduction Task Force Coordinator in a series of updated installments.  

1. Make sure (a) your chapter has coordinators for these two task forces and (b) that their names  
are on the national task force mailing list (if not, have chapter president send postcard to National  
and to Legislative Offices).  

2. Make sure that your coordinators keep you informed with the most timely info possible. The  
best way is to join your local Legislative and/or Reproduction Task Force and work with your  
coordinators on a local level. Help set up an abortion telephone tree to alert members as fast as  
possible.  

3. Visit your Members of Congress whenever possible and be persistent. We cannot be shy and we  
cannot allow ourselves to be put off with evasive answers. The opposition doesn’t.

NONDISCRIMINATION IN LENDING — TWO VICTORIES  
Two victories for women, one legislative, one regulatory, occurred recently in the area of lending.  

SMALL BUSINESS ACT  

On January 2, 1974, President Nixon signed into law a bill to amend the Small Business Act which included the following amendment introduced by Congresswoman Lindy Boggs (D-La):  

“In carrying out the programs administered by the Small Business Adminis-  
tration, including its lending and guaranteeing functions, the Administrator  
shall not discriminate on the basis of sex or marital status against any person  
or small business concern applying for or receiving assistance from the  
Small Business Administration, and the Small Business Administration shall  
give special consideration to veterans of the Armed Forces of the United  
States and their survivors or dependents.”  

Okay, budding businesswomen, let’s use this opportunity to get started.  

FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK BOARD  

On December 7, 1973, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board issued the following statement of  
the Board's policy regarding nondiscrimination in lending by Federal Home Loan Bank System  
member institutions:  

“The Civil Rights Act of 1968 does not specifically prohibit discrimination  
in lending on the basis of age, sex or marital status, and the Board’s regu-  
lations are at present limited to the scope of that Act. However, such  
discrimination is contrary to the principle of, and may in fact violate,  
Constitutional provisions which guarantee equal protection of the law  
for all persons. In addition, such practices impede the achievement of  
the objectives of Federal laws intended to promote sound, economical  
home financing, fair housing opportunity and a decent home for every  
American.”  

This statement will affect Savings and Loans, the largest lenders of mortgages in the United  
States. It is only a partial victory because, being a statement of policy, it does not have  
real “teeth” when it comes to enforcement. Federal legislation prohibiting discrimination  
in granting of credit on the basis of sex or marital status is still needed.  

NOW members who do experience discrimination in obtaining a mortgage from a Savings  
and Loan should write to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in their region, with a copy to  
the discriminating institution and another to the national Credit Task Force coordinator,  
Sharyn Campbell, c/o the Legislative Office.  

HEARINGS ON THE ECONOMIC PROBLEMS OF WOMEN  

The Hearings on the Economic Problems of Women before the Joint Economic Committee  
chaired by Congresswoman Martha Griffiths (D-Mich) are now available. The hearings  
contain such information that your chapter may be able to use — especially if you're in  
an unratified ERA state. Request a copy of the three-volume publication from your own  
Senator or Representative.

ANTI—ERA ATTACK ON FCC PROJECT

The NOW broadcast media project to upgrade news coverage of feminist events and to improve  
the image of women in programming is being subjected to a vicious attack from the far right  
as a means to obtain radio and TV airtime to espouse anti-ERA views.

DETROIT AGREEMENT TARGETED

In August of 1973, Detroit NOW reached an open agreement with its local ABC-TV station,  
WXYZ, which provided for an affirmative action plan for women and for a small amount of  
feminist programming. This agreement was submitted by the station to the Federal Communi-  
cations Commission, as a part of the station’s official public file, and was approved by the FCC.  
On September 26, 1973, the so-called ‘Center for the Public Interest’ filed a complaint against  
the station, alleging that the agreement it had reached with NOW was secret and unlawful.  
NOW and WXYZ both filed a reply defending the agreement.

DIRECT MAIL CAMPAIGN

Subsequently, a direct mail campaign was launched by CPI to raise money to fund litigation  
against NOW’s broadcast media project. The letter, signed by Congressman Trent Lott (R-Miss)  
and sent out on Congressional stationery, accuses NOW of blackmail and other crimes. It is  
being used by anti-ERA groups in both ratified and unratified states to attack NOW and,  

more importantly, to gain access to radio and TV airtime to promote their views against the  
ERA.

THE CENTER FOR PUBLIC INTEREST AND THE ERA

CPI is another typical far right wing front organization, whose Board is composed of known  
anti-ERA organization members. American Conservative Union, Human Events, Young  
Americans for Freedom, and of course Phyllis Schlafly are among those endorsing CPI’s  
anti-NOW program. Copies of its letter attacking NOW have turned up in Virginia, South  
Carolina, Montana and Florida so far. In Montana a state representative received a letter  

from a constituent alluding to NOW’s “secret activities.” He brought this to a NOW member’s  
attention who had the Legislative Office send him documentation refuting the charges. In  
Florida, Shirley Schellenberger of STOP ERA went on the air to tell about NOW’s “secret  
agreements” in Detroit. The station aired NOW’s rebuttal via a phone interview with Joan  
Israel, Detroit NOW President, who very convincingly refuted the charges.

ACTION

1. Call the NOW Legislative Office immediately if the Trent Lott letter is being publicized  
in your community, or if you learn that any of your local media have received any  
communications about the letter.

2. Your chapter president, Legislative and FCC coordinators will be receiving (in fact, may  
already have received) a packet of materials from the Legislative Office and the FCC Task  
Force which should be very useful in refuting this attack. Make sure your chapter has  
these before undertaking rebuttal.

3. If NOW is attacked on radio or TV, request that the station give your chapter airtime  
to defend NOW. If NOW is not attacked but the program espoused an anti-ERA point  
of view, you should request that the station air the opposing point of view.

POSITION AVAILABLE

A position is available for a Director of Legislation (lobbyist) in the Legislative Office, who  
will implement NOW’s legislative priorities. Salary is $13,200. Previous legislative experience  
desirable and membership in NOW (preferably of long duration) is required. Include in resume  
duration of membership in NOW, positions held in NOW, activities in NOW and membership in  
other feminist organizations. Also include education and relevant experience. A full position  
description will be sent upon submission of a resume.

NOW ERA TWO YEAR STRATEGY  
RAISING THE ISSUE  

Raising the Issue is the strategy NOW is using in primary/election politics for the ERA. NOW  
cannot endorse candidates because of our tax status. However, this strategy presents many  
ways and advantages for influencing elections by “issue” focus rather than “candidate” focus.  
The GOAL of the strategy is to influence all candidates to endorse the ERA. The TARGET  
selection is a “NO” district. That is, if there is an ERA voting record and the person holding  
the district seat voted “NO” you have a potential TARGET. Decisions on which districts  

to TARGET should be based on information from PAR: How close was the last election?  
How well organized is NOW in the district? What other groups that have endorsed the ERA  
are organized, or in large numbers in the district (i.e., especially labor)?  

HOW TO RAISE THE ISSUE: (1) Draw up a timeline like the one Chicago NOW has designed  
below; (2) Keep track of all candidate nights in the district and make certain NOW members  
attend and ask about the ERA; (3) Keep track of all TV talk show appearances, news interviews,  
etc. of the candidate and try to have the ERA listed as an issue to be presented to the candidates  
in each interview; (4) Each time a candidate endorses equal rights in any way, be sure to publicize  
their statements. A candidate may shift from total opposition to endorsing a State ERA —  

or supporting a state bill on equal credit; that is a wobble and indicates some change. Identify  
the “wobble” with growing awareness of inequality of women in law, and keep up pressure for  
full endorsement of ERA. If this candidate wins and still has not endorsed ERA, you can  

suggest win was result of “wobble” and continue to press for full endorsement. In other words,  
use the “wobble” as a save clause; (5) NOW can provide “voter information” concerning voting  
records on the ERA and public statements. Hand out sheets or small ads in suburban or rural  
weeklies, demanding “public accountability” of candidates on the ERA; (6) letter campaigns,  
telephone campaigns, door-to-door campaigns can be used to build grassroots support for the ERA  
and confront the candidates with constituency support; (7) Meet the candidates at their “shopping  
center” stops with placards — “Equal Rights by the 200th Anniversary of the Republic”, etc. —  
and possibly adopt a particular slogan or sign or other way of identification that is visible to the  
candidates, public and media (example: Florida met their “traveling” committee hearings at the  
airport with umbrellas painted with slogans).  

REMEMBER THAT THE GOAL OF THE STRATEGY IS TO HAVE ALL CANDIDATES ENDORSE  

THE ERA.  

NOW IS PRO ERA NOW IS NON-PARTISAN  

CHICAGO NOW ERA TIMELINE  

Involvement: a ee pote tanne sale Committee & eee ve  

NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUNE HUEY  
8-11 19 15 30  
Research Set up speaking, Community Legislative ERA | ERA  
possible engagements and > involvement: | Lobbying in pas- § day:  
targets establish 2 é i Springfield ses “# poli-  
community ties. 5 Speaking 2 PA & tical  
2 Following” 3 © Weekend follow-up ‘S rally;  
— Leafletting Ww F actions in Chicago 7 fund  
oO tint a >  
& Organizing ae 8 uj raiser;  
5 Picketing a eZ Repeat of Jan-Mar vic-  
oO = = type actions if tory  
‘Oo Actions: ra necessary cele-  
5 Community % bra-  
* means having someone at B Accountability P Possible “mass lobby”’ tion;  
every speech candidate = sessions oa day in Springfield PIC-  
gives to raise the question 5 Late Feb or a NIC  
of stand oh ERA. & Early Mar &

FIRST CLASS MAIL  
U.S. POSTAGE  

PAID 8¢  
PERMIT No. 2992  

N. O. W. Membership Services Office  

Chicago, Illinois, 60649 FIRST CLASS  

107000 01 091573  
Frances M. Doughty  

2 We are Obs  

New York, NY 10001  

HHH HEH HEE HHH HHH HEH HHH HHH HH EEE HHH RHE HEHEHE HEHE HHH HEHEHE HHH HHH HHH HHH HHH HEHE  

1974 DO IT NOW COPY DEADLINES  

NEW ADDRESS FOR DO IT NOW: NOW PUBLIC INFORMATION OFFICE,  
527 Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022: Editor, Dian Terry.  

March: February 4 August: July 8  

April: March 4 September: August 5  

May: April 5 October: September 6  

June: May 6 November: October 7  

July: June 7 December: November 6  
January, 1975: December 6  

Don’t forget the new address for DO IT NOW items — NOW Public Information  
Office, 527 Madison Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022.

"Do It Now Monthly Newsletter of the National Organization for  
Women February, 1974." Do It Now, Feb. 1974, pp. [1]+. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/FVIDZP692405853/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.