FOR WOMEN

EDITOR: Dian Terry November, 1973  
MONTHLY NEWSLETTER OF THE NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN

NOW JOINS ADVISORS TO PUBLIC BROADCASTING

NOW has become a member organization of the Advisory Committee of National Organizations  
(ACNO) for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Recommendations from NOW members for  
NOW’s input on this committee are sought. Contact National Board member Whitney Adams,  
2153 California Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20008.

NOW RAPE TASK FORCE COORDINATOR MARY ANN LARGEN REVEALS FACTS ON RAPE

“A Report on Rape in the Suburbs,” recently produced by Mary Ann Largen and members of the  
Northern Virginia NOW Chapter, counters the myth that rape occurs mainly in urban high-crime  
areas. According to the FBI Uniform Crime Report, forcible and attempted rape was up 18% in  
suburban areas as compared to a 9% increase in large cities in 1972. Northern Virginia, the area  
studied for the report, is typical of such suburban areas and is geographically located in the South,  
which is second only to the Western States in rate of rape per population. For further information  
on this new report, contact Mary Ann Largen, National Coordinator, Rape Task Force, 5203  
Eighth Road South, Apt. 523B, Arlington, Va. 22204.

NOW WAS FIRST TO URGE APPOINTMENT OF A WOMAN VICE PRESIDENT

While the news of Spiro Agnew’s resignation was still causing shock waves throughout the country,  
NOW’s message to the President was already on the news wires, closely followed by letters from  
Wilma Scott Heide to all members of Congress, Congresswomen and Women in the Federal Govern-  
ment, and a telegram to President Nixon. NOW’s statement, drafted by National Board member  
and Politics Task Force Chairperson Karen DeCrow, read:

“At this unprecedented time in U.S. history, it is time for another unprecedented event. The  

National Organization for Women strongly urges President Nixon to appoint and the Congress to  
confirm a woman vice president.” President Heide’s telegram to President Nixon:  

“NOW IS THE TIME TO APPOINT A WOMAN VICE PRESIDENT.”

(The full text of NOW’s letters, the telegram and the statement is, at press time, en route to all  
national board members, chapter presidents, state coordinators, task force coordinators and the  
NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund Board, as well as to the media.)

IN THE NOW NEWS...

Joan Goldstein, National Coordinator of NOW’s Women and Health Task Force, recently taped an
appearance on the nationally syndicated Lou Gordon Show, to be broadcast later this season...
Roxcy Bolton, member of South Dade (Fla.) NOW and convenor of the first NOW chapter in
Florida, was honored as the “Founding Mother of Florida NOW” at the state’s convention held
September 7-9 in Orlando... Albany (N. Y.) NOW will sponsor a cross-country ski touring and
sightseeing expedition to northern Lapland in Finland, leaving from New York City, April 12-20,
1974. For further information contact: Ms. Andrea Lurie, 116 Third St., Troy, N. Y. 12180,
(518) 272-8465... Ocala (Fla.) NOW held their first organizational meeting in September.
Convenor Judy Wilson says that they will “low-key” it for awhile in their conservative town —
“organize first and POW them later!”... Jane Plitt, NOW’s new Executive Director, seeks
photos of chapter actions and activities for display in the NOW Administrative Office. Send them
to her at 5 S. Wabash, Suite 1615, Chicago, Illinois 60603... The dates of the N. Y. State
Marriage and Divorce Conference have been changed to January 19 and 20, 1974... Interim
guidelines for the Task Force on Sexuality and Lesbianism are available from national co-coordinator
Sidney Abbott, 43 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10003... Six members of Lansing NOW
participated in the first women’s role seminar ever to be held by a Michigan state department...
Central N. Y. NOW (Syracuse) picketed at the Hotel Syracuse when Senator James Buckley addressed
an audience of 800 Right-To-Lifers... Denver NOW is compiling a directory of local
feminist services — a project worth the effort in every city... Seattle NOW has produced a
Sexist Ad Slide Show; conceived by the Seattle NOW Image of Women Task Force, narrative
written by Linda Miller and photographs by Marvin Gregory... New York NOW also produced
a slide presentation on the Image of Women in the Media, compiled by Joyce Snyder and the

N. Y. NOW Image of Women Committee... Wilmington (Del.) NOW will honor member

Roz Rettew with Salle Ginns Award for the outstanding feminist of the year... Long Island
NOW has established a Women’s Talent Bank for all levels of management positions: Management
training, entry level, lower, middle and top management as well as administrative and data processing
openings in Long Island and surrounding areas. For further information write to: Long

Island NOW, Women’s Talent Bank, P. O. Box 176, Merrick, New York 11566... A suggestion
based on mail received by NOW’s national and chapter offices throughout the country: Chapters
should consider establishing a telephone number and listing in their cities. Many potential members
are having trouble finding local NOW chapters... Queens NOW was a sponsor of a career conference,
‘The Working World of Women’, on November 3, 1973. The all-day workshops and
exhibits were designed to meet the needs of women entering the job market for the first time or
after long absence, and featured discussions on current conditions in the employment market,
particularly the problems facing women... The Women’s History Research Center and Women’s
History Library requests that all NOW chapters send copies of chapter newsletters to the Library,
located at 2325 Oak Street, Berkeley, California 94708, for its microfilm collection of feminist
materials. NOW members should also keep in mind that the NOW Archives are located in the
Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library, 3 James Street, Cambridge, Mass. 02138. For guidelines
on the NOW Archives, write to the NOW Membership Services Office, 1957 East 73rd Street,
Chicago, Illinois 60649... Pearl Goldberg, NOW member of New York, will head a committee
of the Women and Health Task Force on Gynecological Malpractice problems. Further information
will be forthcoming in the Women and Health Newsletter, or contact: Joan Goldstein,
Coordinator, Women and Health Task Force, E-14, Lakeview Terrace, Princeton, N. J. 08540...
East Massachusetts NOW is offering a course in self-defense.

REGIONAL REVIEW

A Report from NOW’s Regional Directors

At the Western Regional Conference held in Las Vegas September 29 and 30, Patsy G. Fulcher of
Oakland, California was unanimously elected to head the thirteen-state region. A member of the California
Board of NOW and co-coordinator with Aileen Hernandez and Eleanor Spikes of NOW’s Task Force on
Minority Women and Women’s Rights, Ms. Fulcher succeeds Betty Kersh and Nancy Filler of Washington
as the West’s representative on the NOW National Board of Directors. She is also a co-founder of the
San Francisco Bay Area’s Black Women Organized for Action. Elaine Mills of Las Vegas was elected Assistant
Director for the Western Region.

Eastern Regional Co-Director Frances Kolb reports, “From September to November, the Eastern
Region was the scene of many exciting NOW meetings. States and State Coordinators gathered to view
their past with pride for the many achievements, with dismay for the jobs yet undone, and to view the
future with hope and an increased vigor to continue our many accomplishments.” Following such conferences
as the New Jersey “Our Minds, Our Bodies,” and the New York, Pennsylvania and Connecticut
State Conferences, the Eastern Regional Directors, Jo Ann Evans Gardner and Frances Arick Kolb will host
a meeting of old and new State Coordinators in Newark, N. J.

Southern Regional Director Jackie Frost relays reports from the active Southern Region:

Orlando NOW plans to rent a 20-foot space and erect an open tent in which NOW artists and crafts-
people can display and sell their work on consignment. “Fiesta in the Park” takes place at Lake Eola on
November 10 and 11.

Senator Omer Hirst chaired a long day of hearings September 18 in Richmond for the joint sub-
committee and the task force appointed to study “the extent to which the ratification of the ERA would
change the laws of the Commonwealth or Federal law as it relates to Virginians.” Phyllis Schlafly again
honored Virginia with her presence, and seemed to be getting the lion’s share of the press coverage. But
Virginia Beach NOW member Vera Henderson out-Schlaflyed Schlafly with a well-delivered presentation
just before lunch; when last seen, she was being interviewed before the TV cameras.

Witnesses FOR the Amendment included NOW members Flora Crater, Sandra Combs, Marguerite
Rawalt, Debbie Howard, Caruthers Berger, Kay Brooks, Lydia Howard and Elise Heinz. Combs, a
Vietnam veteran ex-captain in the Air Force, described the advantages of military service for women, and
her experience in a combat zone.

Tampa NOW will stage a “Barefoot and Pregnant Ball” to give away awards to people who have done
the most to “keep women in their place.” Five awards will be given at the November 2 ball, covering city,
county, state, national and international figures.

The Columbia, S. C. Chapter of NOW has filed charges of sex discrimination against Governor John West
and the State of South Carolina with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. A study by the
Bureau of Urban and Regional Affairs reveals that women fill almost half of the State’s positions, but receive
less than a third of the pay. The as yet unreleased study by the Commission on the Status of Women provides
even more proof of the State’s blatant discrimination. Most black women are employed in positions ranked
as 01, white women in grade 05 and white men in grade 11. Also, the state insurance plan allows coverage
for any illness of an unmarried man, while unmarried women are not covered for pregnancy. Women must
be on the job one year before they qualify for maternity leave. No other illness or disability has such a
requirement. Prime movers for the suit were Vicki Eslinger and Marie Jakubs.

Louisiana NOW’s first state conference on November 10 in Shreveport, La. Margaret Stanley from
Baton Rouge NOW relates that Louisiana is re-writing its State Constitution which, with the help of able
and active NOW members throughout the state, will include an Equal Rights Amendment in its Bill of Rights.
But the opposition is mounting! Anyone who is a Louisiana resident or former resident contact — The Legislative
Assembly, State of Louisiana, Delegates of the Constitutional Convention 1973, Baton Rouge, La.
WRITE ON..... !

Midwest Regional Director Kathy Rand reports that there is lots of activity in the Midwest. At recent
state conferences, Marline Rennels of Elgin was elected Illinois State Coordinator, and Lynne Schrum of
Evansville was elected Indiana State Coordinator. Congratulations to two of our newest and most active
chapters: Peoria, Illinois and Fairborn, Ohio. Both have become overnight successes in their communities!
Welcome to our newest convening chapters: Rapid City, S.D.; Aberdeen, S.D.; Danville, Ill.; and
Bellevue, Nebr. Unratified states in the region will be working especially hard to get the ERA ratified this
year. New address for Kathy Rand is 502 W. Roscoe, Chicago, Ill. 60657; new phone is (312) 528-5302.

NOW LEGAL VICE PRESIDENT’S REPORT:  
NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN THE LAW  

The following is the first in a monthly series of reports on new law in the field of sex discrimination. The report will  
attempt to analyze and interpret recent legal decisions and explain, where possible, how these decisions can be implemented  
by NOW chapters. In following reports we will discuss pregnancy leave, sex-segregated want ads and equal pay. If you  

have requests for specific topics, please send them to: Judith Lonnquist, 201 N. Wells, Chicago, Ill. 60606 and we will  

try to accommodate you.  

VETERAN'S BENEFITS AND THE SUPREME COURT  
FRONTIERO v. RICHARDSON  
93 S. Ct. 1764 (May, 1973).  

The Frontiero case arose when Sharon Frontiero, an officer in the Air Force, sought increased quarter allowances and  
medical and dental benefits to cover her husband. Frontiero claimed her husband as a dependent under the statutes providing  
for such increased benefits for spouses.  

These fringe benefits were instituted for members of the uniformed services in an attempt to attract career personnel.  
The statutes covering these benefit allocations provide that the dependent of a male member of the uniformed services  
is his wife; a female member, however, is allowed to claim her husband as a dependent only if “he is in fact dependent  
on the member... for over one-half of his support..."  

On the basis of this clause, Frontiero and her husband were denied benefits. They brought suit, claiming that such a  
statutory difference in treatment creates an unconstitutional discrimination in violation of the Due Process Clause of the  
5th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.  

The essence of their argument to the Court was that the 5th Amendment, though it does not specifically allow for  
equal protection, does forbid discrimination so unjustifiable as to deny one due process of law. The Frontieros’ contention  
was that if she were a male officer, the benefits would be granted her without regard to the actual financial dependency  
of her spouse, and that solely because she is a woman she has been denied those benefits. This, the Frontieros claim, is  
an unjustifiable statutory classification.  

They argued that classifications based upon sex, in the same manner as those based upon race, religion and national  
origin, are inherently suspect and should be subjected to close judicial investigation.  

The Supreme Court, in agreeing with the Frontieros, based the weight of its decision upon its earlier decision in  
Reed v. Reed (1971), where the Court ruled unconstitutional an Idaho statute providing if there are two individuals  
otherwise equally entitled to be the administrator of an estate, and one of the individuals was female, the male must be  
awarded the appointment.  

The Court had reasoned in Reed, as it did in Frontiero, that sex classifications were as suspect as those based on race,  
national origin and religion. The argument used in Reed which the Court chose to extend in Frontiero was that a legislature  
cannot make classifications based on arbitrary distinctions, solely for the purpose of legislative convenience (the argument  
of the defense had been that the sexual classifications were included in the statute merely to alleviate administrative paper-  
work by narrowing one class of people eligible). The Court determined the test of the arbitrariness to be that the classification  
distinction must bear a legitimate relationship to the governmental interest sought to be protected. In other words,  
the Court decided that legislative convenience, in and of itself, is not a factor which will support the constitutional  
validity of a statutory classification. If the classification is found to be patently arbitrary in relation to the objective  
of the statute, it must be found unconstitutional.  

In Frontiero, the Court reasoned that a sexual classification was in no way shown to have any correlation to the granting  
of benefits to service people and their spouses in order to increase career personnel, other than to save administrative  
cost and time.  

It is important to note, and the Court in both Reed and Frontiero was careful to point out, that it is not necessary that  
the statute in question deny women all rights under its provisions in order for it to be found that the statutory classifications  
are discriminatory. More specifically, the fact that women were not automatically denied benefits (Frontiero’s  
husband would have been eligible for benefits if he had been found to be dependent) did not enter as a factor in the  
Court's determination that because Frontiero was denied employment benefits under different regulations from those  
applicable to her male peers, the statute was discriminatory.  

Justice Brennan, writing the majority opinion in Frontiero, looked back with considerable regret on the sexist history  
of the Court and noted that the courts have come a long way from the judicial sexism found in cases such as Bradwell v.  
Illinois (1873), where the Court concluded that:  

The harmony * * * which belongs * * * to the family institution is repugnant to the idea of a woman  
adopting a distinct and independent career from that of her husband. * * * The paramount destiny and  
mission of woman are to fulfill the offices * * * of wife and mother * * * .”  

With the backdrop of that quotation, the Supreme Court ventured again, not only to concur with its decision in Reed,  
but to expand it. The position of the Court articulated in Frontiero now seems to be not only that it is a denial of a woman’s  
right to equal protection under the law to be denied a statutory privilege because she is a woman, but that any statute  
which makes a classification distinction based on sex is inherently suspect and should be held to close judicial scrutiny.  
Thus, Frontiero holds that the imposition upon a citizen of a disability based on that person’s sex on its face is a denial  
of rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution. Judith Lonnquist  

JUDICIAL QUOTE OF THE MONTH:  
“* * * it can hardly be doubted that, in part because of the high visibility of the sex characteristic, women still face  
pervasive, although at times more subtle, discrimination in our educational institutions, on the job market and perhaps  
most conspicuously in the political arena * * * women are vastly underrepresented in this Nation’s decision-making councils.  
There has never been a female President, nor a female member of this Court * * * ." (U.S. Supreme Court Justice Brennan  
in Frontiero).

NEWS FROM THE NOW LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND

The NOW Legal Defense & Education Fund’s Board of Trustees, at the Summer 1973 meeting, approved Fund participation in eight cases. Two cases, Aiello v. Hansen and Cohen v. Chesterfield County School Board; LaFleur v. Cleveland Board of Education, challenge discriminatory employment practices in regard to maternity. In Rosemary Smith v. Jerome R. Lewis, an attorney is being charged with malpractice for failing to include a wife’s interest in community property in a settlement agreement. The Fund is also taking an interest in two Title VII suits, one involving a female teacher at a university, and the other challenging the state overtime pay provision for being limited to women.

The additional cases involve a married woman’s right to retain her birth name and a suit against a doctor who performed an abortion on a minor.

If you are employed by the Xerox Corporation and wish to work for women’s rights, you might be able to do so and get paid by Xerox.

The NOW Legal Defense & Education Fund office is in need of people to work in the headquarters office, but is unable to provide for a full, salaried staff. Under the Xerox Social Service Leave Program, an employee may apply to work for programs such as the NLDEF for up to one year. If approved she/he may receive regular salary from Xerox and retain benefits and seniority.

The NLDEF particularly needs people with ability in law, budgeting and programming, project management or public relations. Any Xerox employee who is interested in working for the Fund under this program should write to the NLDEF headquarters office at 641 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022, describing skills and experience and what she/he would like to do for the Fund.

DETROIT NOW CHALLENGES TV LICENSE RENEWAL AMIDST ATTACK BY ANTI-FEMINISTS

In two moves related to TV license renewals, Detroit NOW, in coalition with other Detroit area groups, settled successfully with WXYZ-TV and petitioned the FCC against WJBK-TV. The settlement with WXYZ, now under attack from HOW and Stop ERA members, provides for improvements in the employment of women, prime-time programming directed at feminist issues and goals, and a Women’s Advisory Council for the station.

(NOTE: The September DO IT NOW reported Women & Health Task Force Coordinator Joan Goldstein’s participation in the University of Michigan’s Conference on Aging. According to additional information received later, Detroit NOW President Joan Israel and Lillian Troll were instrumental in establishing the feminist focus of that conference. Detroit NOW Member Harriet Alpern was a member of a workshop panel on the media. NOW President Heide was a featured speaker.)

ATTENTION NOW CHAPTER FUNDRAISERS AND ALL NOW MEMBERS

Kathy Olson, Vice President of Twin Cities (Minn.) NOW, sends the following caveat: ‘The soon-available 1974 Liberated Woman's Appointment Calendar has a poem entitled ‘Indian Giver’ opposite the September 15 entry. In deference to the personhood of all our Original/Native American sisters and brothers, please look opposite this entry BEFORE you make a decision about purchasing this calendar.’

A note from the authors, Lynn Sherr and Jurate Kazickas: (from their reply to Kathy Olson) — “We in no way wish to slight Native Americans by reprinting the poem, ‘Indian Giver,’ by Diane Wakoski. To us, it was a feminist poem, a particular part of the woman’s experience, told in the idiom of schoolchildren. In fact, that is the only reason why the term ‘Indian Giver’ was acceptable to us. We probably don’t need to point out to you our deep concern for Native Americans, as evidenced in some of our other entries. We fully acknowledge our commitment to feminist and humanist goals. As we wrote in the introduction, we hope the day will come when we won’t need publications like ours to understand — and sometimes even laugh at — some of our worst problems.”

DALLAS AND FT. WORTH NOW CHAPTERS JOIN TO CHALLENGE NEW AIRPORT

At the dedication of the new Dallas/Ft. Worth Airport, women guests including Women State Senators and Representatives were invited only to a fashion show while men attended a political luncheon. Attendees at the fashion show were greeted by the NOW members with flyers pointing out the obvious discrimination: ‘The Dallas/Ft. Worth Airport is designed to take us into the 21st Century, so let’s put 19th Century ideas behind us.’

INTERNATIONAL NOW CHAPTERS ARE THE GOAL OF WORLD TOUR

National Board Member Patricia Burnett, representing the NOW International Committee, is traveling to 14 countries, including the USSR, to study the status of women in those countries, and to discuss the establishment of NOW chapters throughout the world. Ms. Burnett will meet with many feminist and world leaders, including Indira Gandhi. For the two-week visit to Russia, Ms. Burnett is the guest of the Soviet government, along with Frances Farenthold, Claire Harvey and Carol Pendell.

FROM THE PRESIDENT:

1. Apparently resulting from my protests last year to Psychosurgery funding by the National Institute of
Mental Health, N. I. M. H., of the U. S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, H. E. W., I was invited to
be a member of a consultant panel convened by N. I. M. H., 9/24/73. The issues are: no empirical evidence of
therapeutic effectiveness of psychosurgery (brain surgery); therefore it is human experimentation; denial of civil
liberties and civil rights of subjects who are often in no position to give ‘informed consent’; use of powerless
people — women, children, prison inmates, hospital inmates as subjects; criteria of mental health has documented
double standards that, for example, considers return/adjustment to ‘housewife’ (sic, no one marries a house) role
as success vis-à-vis women victims. N. I. M. H. knows my views and recommendations as a behavioral scientist,
as a NOW officer, as a civil libertarian citizen. If you are knowledgeable about this phenomenon, please write
Dr. Bert Brown, Director, National Institute of Mental Health, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Md. 20852. Suggest
you insist on no public funding of Psychosurgery research, experimentation, subject selection, procedures without
additional continuous feminist consulting and monitoring. Communicate with Joan Goldstein, NOW Task Force
Coordinator on Women and Health for follow-up on these actions: E-14 Lakeview Terrace, Princeton, N. J. 08540,
(609) 452-1796.

2. Suggest each NOW member ‘recover’ at least one former NOW member who may have simply neglected to
renew, would like to know current exciting programs and progress, whose reason(s) for not renewing no longer
exist.

3. As long as I have breath and voice in NOW, I shall continue to observe, until the phenomena are eliminated,
that concepts, language and behavior that communicate: target, fight, enemy, barricades, ‘give ‘em hell’, male
chauvinist pig ~ m.c.p., etc. sound like the military, masculine mystique that is all too ‘Pentagonian’ and the
central ethos of our culture. I am as radical (getting to root causes), unequivocal, committed, vigorously feminist
as any other NOW member or other feminist; however, adversarial concepts, behavior and language are root causes
of the basic human inequality of sexism that feminism intends to cure. Alternatives to the above in sequence
might be: focus, work, beneficiary (though recalcitrants won't view or feel it that way just NOW), barriers, give
‘em heaven (again, some don’t know it yet), still normal male, i.e. sexist, etc. Indeed, the rebirth of feminism
means, in my view, that SHE IS RISEN to redefine and reassign power for life. May I suggest this be discussed/
considered in our chapters, in our homes, in the private lives of our minds.

4. NOW Executive Committee, who has responsibility for NOW conference has tentatively selected a catchy
theme for May, 1974 conference of: ‘You Can’t Stop NOW’. NOW Conference Planning Committee, delegated
Conference Planning Opportunities by Executive Committee solicits Conference theme and program ideas from
NOW membership. Committee please note another theme suggestion of: ‘NOW, She is Risen’. Stating ‘She’
does not exclude men. The ‘She’ only means that women are being empowered and that we: women, men and
children recognize the value of the so-called ‘feminine’ part of human potential for women and men publicly
and privately.

5. On the subject of men in NOW: All NOW publications, newsletters, communications, conference invitations,
must, according to our statement of purpose and incorporation, include reference to women and men, sisters and
brothers, girls and boys.

6. Finally, a problem and opportunity for all of us active in and for NOW: correspondence. Most received by
me from other NOW members is truly beautiful in content, style, brilliance, effectiveness, and sentiment. It is
also near overwhelming, coupled with other mail and responsibilities. However, please keep it coming and please
continue with your understanding that it is shared, acknowledged, answered, acted upon by: letter, phone,
word of mouth, actions, speeches, conferences, as much as energy, time and judgment can create. It is never
ignored. Criticism/advice are at least as valued as commendations. All are cherished by me as sources of thought,
inspiration, aspiration and vitalization best articulated as your expressions of caring. May God, (that is, the divine
in us all) guide us to create a world where the power of love exceeds the love of power. Onward!

In life and love, Wilma Scott Heide

FORT WORTH NOW PREPARES SLIDE SHOW ON SEXIST CHILDREN’S BOOKS

“This Book Is Rated ‘S’. A Report on Sexism in Children’s Literature” has been produced by Fort Worth NOW’s
Education Task Force. The presentation details sexism present in career education pamphlets used in schools,
in readers and library books. The slides and a taped narration are available for rental from the Fort Worth, Texas
NOW. Rental fee: $15 (postage included). Contact: Shirley Hillard, 3800 Trail Wind Lane, Fort Worth,
Texas 76109.

DO YOU HAVE FEMINIST SLIDE PRESENTATIONS OR FILMS??

The Public Information Office, in order to answer the many requests that are coming in, would like  
to hear from NOW chapters which have prepared slide presentations or films on feminist topics. A  
list of these presentations will be compiled, along with a short description of each, and information  
on availability. Please send information on your slide or film presentation, its title, and a short  
description of content to: NOW Public Information Office, 641 Lexington Avenue, Sixth Floor,  
New York, N. Y. 10022.

GIVE NOW FOR THE HOLIDAYS

Send $5 or more as a contribution to NOW and your “giftee” will receive a personal greeting from  
NOW. The attractive, tasteful card, in gold with a red NOW logo, reads:

“Seasons Greetings.  
A gift in your name has been received by the National Organization for Women from (name of donor).

We are grateful for this support, and pledge our continued efforts to take action to achieve full equality  
for women in truly equal partnership with men.”

I'm contributing the sum of $

Send Holiday acknowledgements to:

address

From (your name)

address

FIRST CLASS MAIL  
U.S. POSTAGE  

PAID 8¢  
PERMIT No. 2992  

The Agency and Services Office FIRST CLASS  

Chicago, Illinois 60649  

107000 01 091573  
Frances M. Doughty  

2a Wi SL. 884  

New York, NY 10001  

HHT HH TH TH HTH HEHE HHH HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HEHEHE HHH HEHEHE HH HHH HHH HEHEHE  

NEW COORDINATOR FOR WOMEN & RELIGION TASK FORCE:  

Joyce Slayton Mitchell  
Wolcott, Vermont 05680  
(802) 888-4652  

Forthcoming Women & Religion Task Force Newsletter, “Our Sisterhood for Personhood,” will  
list National Chair-one for each goal and action project. Anyone who wants to provide input for  
the newsletter will be given space and interest. Contact Joyce Slayton Mitchell at the address  
above.  

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *  

NOW’S TASK FORCE ON OLDER WOMEN has developed a new kit of materials to open battle  
against the disastrous conditions of most women from menopause through old age. The materials  
include a pamphlet, GROWING OLDER FEMALE, “a sampler of facts, opinions, questions and  
proposals — a first attempt to define the problems and look for solutions.” Also included is an  
interview outline which explores what it means to grow older in a society that is not only sexist  
and racist, but is also ageist. A copy of PRIME TIME, an independent newsletter for older women  
working closely with the Task Force, and other materials are part of the kit, which is available  
from the National Office for $2, or free to Task Force members. Coming soon will be position  
papers on social security, pensions, menopause, sexuality of older women, etc. Anyone interested  
in helping prepare such papers, please contact the coordinator, Tish Sommers, 434 66th Street,  
Oakland, Calif. 94609 (415) 653-1435.  

* * * * * * * * * * ¥ * * * *  

Deadline for the January, 1974 DO IT NOW: January 7.

ERA TWO YEAR STRATEGY  
FALL: STATE ERA STRATEGY CONFERENCES  

OHIO — October 27, 1973, Cincinnati, contact State Coordinator Janet Burnside,  
67 E. Kossuth, Apt. D., Columbus, Ohio 43206.  

VIRGINIA — ERA Conference, October 13, Richmond, Va. Morning session  
devoted to substantive issues in the ERA, each Chapter will present  
information on an issue. Lunch — PAR session. Afternoon —  
How to Lobby Workshops. Contact State Legislative Coordinator  
Elise Heinz, 1400 Uhle St., Arlington, Va. 22201.  

MIDWEST REGIONAL CONFERENCE — September in Las Vegas, Nevada. ERA  
Lobbying Workshop conducted by Ann Scott, V. P. Legislation  
for three unratified states — Nevada, Utah, Arizona. Participants  
included Representative Jean Ford, Nevada sponsor of ERA and  
NOW member. These states report that the Mormon Church is  
quite a problem and should be “educated” to women’s rights.  

PAR — Ohio reports that “we have come up with a TREMENDOUS amount of data  
on our “boys” — Contact Janet Burnside (see above) if you can help.  

STATE ERA INFORMATION  

MARYLAND — The Governor’s Commission to study and recommend implementation  
legislation for the ERA has been announced. Two NOW members,  
Ann Scott and Helen Parker, will be serving with seventeen people  
under Chairperson Lucy Garvey, Attorney from the Women’s Law  
Center.  

KENTUCKY — The State Attorney General's Office issued an opinion that “it would be  
futile for the General Assembly to try to rescind its approval of the  
ERA to the U. S. Constitution. . . . . it appears that such a  
resolution, if adopted by the General Assembly, would simply be  
ignored by the Congress.” — statements by Asst. Atty. Gen.,  
Mary Ann Delaney.  

AFL-CIO 10th NATIONAL CONVENTION, MIAMI, FLORIDA, OCTOBER 18-20.  

Realizing that the press deadline for DO IT NOW is October 5th, we hope that you will  

already know of the AFL-CIO Convention and that we have been working for an ERA  

endorsement. As of October 5th, it looks good for a reversal by the AFL-CIO, one of the  

largest organized groups still opposing the ERA. Paul Jennings, President, I. U. E., has  

announced he will introduce a Resolution on the floor for endorsing the ERA. NOW  

strategy to swing labor around seems to have been very effective in two ways: 1. the raising  

of the names and activities of the opposition and their traditional anti-labor views and votes.  

2. the raising of the issue of “protective labor laws” which are either being extended to  

men and/or women as a benefit or struck down as prohibitive under Title VII. The Legis-  

lative Office has prepared an ERA LABOR KIT which was mailed October 5th to the  

Legislative Task Force, Union Task Force, Board, ERA Coordinators. Included is a list of  

Pro ERA Organizations, Anti ERA Organizations with notation of the Anti groups that  

support “right to work” legislation; information on “protective laws” and what’s happening;  

a page of quotes from opposition..... including the latest from Robert Welch, founder  

JOHN BIRCH SOCIETY in the July, 1973 Bulletin: ‘Fortunately, such patriotic and out-  

standing women as Mrs. Phyllis Schlafly and Mrs. Jacquie Davidson had been sounding the  

alarm in a vigorous though losing campaign,” he says, explaining, “they did not have behind them  

any organization with the cohesiveness and experience and leadership drive which the Birch mem-  
bership could supply. Welch claims that as a result of the subsequent Birch involvement, the  

ERA was stymied. (Quoted from HOMEFRONT, August, 1973)

MINIMUM WAGE VETO VOTE

As you probably know, on September 19, 1973, the House by a vote of 259 yeas to 164 nays, about
23 votes less than the necessary two-thirds, failed to override President Nixon's veto of the minimum
wage bill.

Following are the names of the Representatives who voted against overriding the President's veto, 
i.e. to kill the minimum wage bill, or who did not vote at all. X indicates not voting.

ALABAMA                KENTUCKY                OHIO
Buchanan, R          Edwards, R              Snyder, R
Dickinson, R         Flowers, D              Stubblefield, D
                       LOUISIANA
ARIZONA               Herbert, D              Treen, R
Conlan, R           Steiger, R              Clancy, R
                       Latta, R
Rhodes, R           MARYLAND                Guyer, R
                       Minshall, R
ARKANSAS             Byron, D               Powell, R
Hammerschmidt, R    Mills, D, X            Holt, R
CALIFORNIA          MICHIGAN               Camp, R
Clausen, R          Mathias, R             Broomfield, R
                       G.R. Ford, R
                       OREGON
Clawson, R          Moorhead, R            Brown, R
Harvey, R           Dellenbeck, R          Green, D
Goldwater, R        Pettis, R              Cederberg, R
Huber, R            PENNSYLVANIA           Gusser, R
                       Rousselot, R          Chamberlain, R
Hutchinson, R       Goodling, R            Shuster, R
Hinshaw, R         Talgott, R             Esch, R
VanderJagt, R       Johnson, R             Ware, R
Hosmer, R           Teague, R              MINNESOTA
                       Schneebel, R          Ketchum, R
                       Wiggins, R            Frenzel, R
                       Quie, R               SOUTH CAROLINA
Burgener, R         Bob Wilson, R          Nelsen, R
Zwach, R            Gettys, D              Spence, R
COLORADO            MISSISSIPPI            Mann, D
Armstrong, R        Brotzman, R            Bowen, D
                       Montgomery, D         SOUTH DAKOTA
DELAWARE            Cochran, R             Whitten, D
du Pont, R         Lott, R                TENNESSEE
FLORIDA             MISSOURI              Baker, R
Frey, R            Haley, D               Litton, D, X
Beard, R           Quillen, R             Fuqua, D
Young, R           MONTANA                Duncan, R
GEORGIA             Shoup, R              TEXAS
Blackburn, R       Mathis, D              NEBRASKA
Burleson, D, X     Teague, D             McCollister, R
Thone, R           Casey, D               Poage, D
Landrum, D         Martin, R              Collins, R
Price, R
IDAHO               NEVADA                Fisher, D
Hansen, R, X       Symms, R              Towell, R
Mahon, D           Steelman, R
ILLINOIS           NEW HAMPSHIRE         Archer, R
Anderson, R        Erlenborn, R          Cleveland, R
VERMONT             Arends, R             Hanrahan, R
NEW JERSEY         Mallary, R, X         Collier, R
McClory, R         Frelinghuysen, R      Hunt, R
VIRGINIA           Crane, R              Michel, R
NEW MEXICO         Broyhill, R           Parris, R
Derwinski, R       Young, R              Lujan, R, X
Butler, R          Robinson, R
INDIANA            NEW YORK              R. Daniel, R
Bray, R            Landgrebe, R          Conable, R
McEwen, R, X      W.C. Daniel, D        Wampler, R
Dennis, R          Myers, R              Hastings, R
Robison, R         Downing, D            Whitehurst,
Hudnut, R          Zion, R               Kemp, R
WISCONSIN          IOWA                  King, R
Wydler, R          Davis, R              Steger, R
Gross, R           Scherle, R           Lent, R
Froelich, R       Thomson, R            Mayne, R
NORTH CAROLINA     KANSAS                Fountain, D
Roy, D, X         Mizell, R             Shriver, R
Jones, D           Ruth, R               Sebelius, R
Winn, R            Martin, R

NOW’S LEGISLATIVE ACTION HANDBOOK

{Last month installment no. 1 on Lobbying as a chapter action started our handbook. From time
to time new installments will appear in the Blue Sheet.)

Preparing Testimony

Sooner or later you may want to testify before your city council or a committee of your state
legislature on a bill of interest to NOW, or, if you have a special expertise, we may ask you to
prepare testimony and/or to testify for NOW before a congressional committee.

a. Ask to testify: Write or call the city council or the state committee which has jurisdiction
over the bill, find out if and when hearings are being held (if they’re not, you may want to
push for them), and ask to testify. Ask them to send you a copy of the bill. If you can’t
make the hearing or can’t get someone to present the testimony for you, ask to submit
written testimony for the record.

b. Form: Type clearly, double space. Provide enough copies for the entire committee and
the press (usually about forty). Get the testimony in, if possible, two days ahead, so the
committee members can read it. Use offset or instant printing for good reproduction.
Have a front page that says something like this:

Testimony on the Welfare Amendments Act of 1972 (S. 1234) presented

before the Poverty Committee of the Legislature of the State of California,

by Jane Equal on behalf of the National Organization for Women, June, 1972.
In your first paragraph, identify yourself by name and occupation and residence. State
that you are appearing only for NOW, and describe NOW briefly (i.e.):

The National Organization for Women was formed in 1966 for the purpose

of bringing women into full participation in the mainstream of American

life in truly equal partnership with men. With a membership of both men

and women, NOW is the largest feminist organization in the world, with

over 600 chapters, and with members in every state.

c. Content: Start out by stating NOW’s official position on the issue from our Bill of Rights
or from our resolutions taken at our national conferences. Don’t make your testimony
over 4 or 5 pages unless you have very complex, subtle, and relevant arguments. Don’t
cover the whole feminist movement — no legislature is quite ready for that — but just the
information, arguments and statistics that have direct bearing on the bill. Document
your research by citing the source in the text or in footnotes. You can append single
copies of documentation (tables, articles, letters, graphs) for inclusion in the record that
you may want to refer to but not read. Don’t be afraid of making a joke or a forceful
statement, or of using a good quotation. Stick to a few well-documented points rather
than scattering your shots. Make your strongest statements first before they fall asleep
and wind up with a succinct summary and a bit of wit if you can. (The NOW Legislative
Office can provide some model testimony if you write, or you can look in the hearings
record on the ERA).

d. Questioning: You may be cross-questioned. Take your time. If you are asked a legal or
statistical question you can’t answer, don’t bluff. Say frankly you don’t have that
specific information, but will get the answer in two days. Then do it!

e. Press Release: You should also prepare a news release, or have your chapter’s PR person
do it, of preferably one, no more than two pages, summarizing the main points of your
testimony. Distribute to the press for release the day of your testimony. See NOW’s
Press Handbook for suggestions.

WASHINGTON BLUE SHEET

News from the NOW LEGISLATIVE OFFICE  
1107 National Press Building  
Washington, D. C. 20004  
(202) 347-2279  
Ann Scott, V. P. Legislation  

RAPE CENTER BILL  

On September 13, Senator Mathias (R-Md.) introduced S. 2422, a bill which would establish a National  
Center for the Prevention and Control of Rape. Senator Mathias’ office worked closely with the NOW  
Legislative Office and with Mary Ann Largen, NOW’s National Rape Task Force Coordinator, in the  
drafting and tactics on the bill.  

BACKGROUND  

Written as an amendment to the National Mental Health Act, S. 2422 would, among other things:  

1. Authorize and fund study into the effectiveness of state rape laws, attitudes toward  
rape, treatment of victims, causes, motivations of rapists, impact on families, homo-  
sexual rape in prisons, effectiveness of existing programs. The wording of this section  
is careful to make organizations such as NOW eligible for grants in the event the bill  
is passed and funded.  

2. Act as a clearinghouse to compile continuing studies, conduct research and demon-  
stration projects and training programs for police and medical personnel, etc.  

3. Set a funding level of $10,000,000.  

NOW’S CONTRIBUTION  

NOW’s most important contribution to the bill was to advise the language defining rape, for the  
purposes of the bill, as “forcible, statutory, and attempted rape, homosexual assaults, and other  
criminal sexual assaults.” The usual legal definition of rape in the states’ laws is limited to “vaginal  
penetration” by a man against a woman’s will, and therefore does not include such acts as forcible  
anal or oral copulation, or use of an instrument. Our language would materially broaden the scope  
of the bill, and hopefully encourage adoption of a broader definition of rape at the state level.  
Crimes other than “vaginal penetration” are usually considered “sodomy,” and receive a lesser  
punishment.  

TACTICS  

NOW and Senator Mathias hope to get this bill through the Senate before the Christmas recess.  
Please write both your Senators urging them to co-sponsor, not just support, S. 2422.  

NOTICE TO ALL NOW CHAPTER PRESIDENTS  

Please send by postcard the name, address, business and home phone number of your chapter's  
Legislative Task Force Coordinator to BOTH the Legislative Office and the National Office.  

IT IS IMPORTANT THAT ALL CHAPTERS BE REPRESENTED ON THE LEGISLATIVE TASK  
FORCE. Your Legislative Task Force Coordinator will be your only chapter member to receive  
emergency Legislative Alerts directly from the Legislative Office. She/he in turn is responsible  

for keeping you informed.  

Also, please let the Legislative Office know the name of your Congressperson so we can get some  
effective spot lobbying going.

"Do It Now Monthly Newsletter of the National Organization for  
Women November, 1973." Do It Now, Nov. 1973, pp. 1+. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/PSTTED679566016/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.