MONTHLY NEWSLETTER OF THE NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN

EDITOR: Dian Terry December, 1973

BY-LAWS CHANGES NOT RATIFIED  
Details next issue

NOW REFORMS MEDIA BROADCAST CODE

The National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) has agreed to revisions to its Radio Code as proposed by NOW, following a presentation on the image of women in the media by NOW Vice President/Public Relations Toni Carabillo. At an earlier meeting of the NAB Television Code Review Board, the broadcasters agreed to the “thrust and spirit” of NOW’s changes for the television code, also presented by Toni Carabillo.

The revisions, prepared by Joan Nicholson (National Coordinator, Image of Women Task Force) and Whitney Adams (National Coordinator, FCC Task Force) were aimed at stricter guidelines for broadcasters in portraying women in programming and advertising. Joyce Snyder of New York NOW was highly instrumental in arranging NOW’s participation in the NAB Code conferences.

NAB officials have now strengthened their organization’s commitment to the improvement of the image of women in the media, with “reaffirmation, wider and intensified publicizing, and more insightful implementation . . . towards accomplishing the goals affecting the dignity, among others, of women . . .” NOW will contribute a guest column in the NAB’s monthly CODE NEWS, to be followed by national and local NOW action currently being planned by Whitney Adams and the FCC Task Force and Joan Nicholson and the Image Task Force. Please send your suggestions to the NOW Public Information Office, 641 Lexington Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10022. In addition, the NAB is distributing copies of Toni Carabillo’s presentations to all stations which subscribe to the radio and television codes.

ATTENTION NOW MEMBERS! SEE PAGE 3 FOR NEWS OF 1974 NOW NATIONAL CONFERENCE.

IN THE NOW NEWS

Washington, D. C., Northern Virginia and Montgomery County NOW chapters challenged  
Christian churches with feminist theses on October 28, demanding that the “Church halt  
its sexist teachings and customs” and calling for reform of such practices..... Atlanta  
NOW has filed a sex discrimination complaint against the Atlanta Chamber of Commerce  
..... Dallas NOW members Margaret Bosse, Jane Baker, Martha Dickey, Elisabeth Janousek  
and Nancy Scully are “cooking” for the ERA — by October 12, the quintet had won 12  
ribbons and cash prizes for their culinary skills at the Texas State Fair, with all proceeds  
going to help ratification of the ERA..... Salt Lake City NOW member Carolyn Young  
is moderator for a new Salt Lake City radio program, ‘‘Women: The Unsilenced Majority”,  
with participation by Utah NOW members on the program..... Columbia, S. C. NOW  
has filed charges of sex discrimination against the state of South Carolina..... More  
news of the NOW New York State Conference on Marriage and Divorce to be held in  
New York City on January 19 and 20, 1974: Registration is $10 in advance; speakers  
include Betty Friedan and Marya Mannes. For further information, write to the NOW  
New York State Conference on Marriage and Divorce, 47 East 19th Street, N.Y., N.Y.,  
10003. In this season of many NOW State Conferences throughout the country,  
congratulations to all newly elected and re-elected State Coordinators ..... a quotable  
quote from the California State Conference: ‘‘Let our (NOW’s) watchword be ‘Organiza-  
tion and Union’ — Toni Carabillo, Vice President, Public Relations ..... San Antonio  
NOW is planning a Rape Crisis Center among many other activities including local com-  
mercials which have received highly favorable response, displays at the Texas teachers  
association convention, outreach efforts to Chicanos ..... Tulsa NOW member Pat  
Atkinson won first place honors in the 1973 American Dental Association Science Writers  
Award Competition..... Los Angeles NOW has initiated NOW Speakers’ Bureau Train-  
ing Classes ..... San Fernando Valley (Calif.) NOW is compiling a list of friendly local  
business and service firms ..... From the Cleveland NOW newsletter: ‘’Breathes there  

a woman among us who is not a homemaker? Who is not responsible for the care and  
feeding of someone, if but herself? And, who of us is not concerned by the astronomical  
price of food and what this is going to do to the diets, the nutritional value of the intake  
of ourselves, our families and the already hellish plight of the American poor? And do  
we not all have at least an elementary understanding of the necessity of proper nutrition  
in the development of mind and body? ..... Madison (Wis.) NOW has been successful  
in working with the Madison Police Department toward better affirmative action.....  
The Rockford (Ill.) NOW Employment Project has recently completed a study of local  

Force, has been invited to speak at the annual convention of the Toy Manufacturers  
Association — her topic: Sex Stereotyping in the Toy Department ..... Somerset  
County (N. J.) NOW, in its October newsletter, included post cards to General Mills:  
“I want General Mills to provide equal employment opportunities for women and  
minorities...‘ Members were requested to sign and mail the specially printed and  
addressed-to-General-Mills cards .....  

WANTED: Office Manager-Administrator, N. O. W. Legal Defense & Education Fund,  

New York City. Position available on or about February 15th, 1974. Salary up to $15,000.  
Administrative, office management, proposal development, experience desirable. Send  

resume to Sheila Tobias, Chair-one, N. O. W., L. D. E. F. Administrative Committee,  

Wesleyan University, Middletown, Ct. 06457, immediately.

1974 NOW NATIONAL CONFERENCE

Scheduled for Memorial Day Weekend, May 24-27, NOW’s 1974 National Conference will take
place in Houston, Texas. Conference Co-coordinators are Helen Cassidy and Poppy Northcutt,
with Conference Planning Committee members Marlyne Kilbey, Neanne Necaise, Jackie Frost,
Cathy Irwin, Mary Jean Collins-Robson, Judy Lightfoot, Kathy Rand, Wilma Scott Heide,
Marjorie Schuchat and staff, Jane Plitt, NOW Executive Director, and Dian Terry, NOW Public
Information Director.

Conference Positions:

NOW members are needed to work and assist in the following areas:

Facilitators Elections

Displays Rules

Transportation Resolutions

Public Relations Registration/Credentials

If you would like to participate in the workings of the NOW National Conference, please write
to the NOW National Office for job descriptions for the above positions and other information.

NOW National Office

5 South Wabash

Suite 1615

Chicago, Illinois 60603

NOTE: By vote of NOW’s Executive Committee, the Conference Planning Committee
has the authority to recommend to the President the removal, replacement or
deletion of coordinators or conference program events.

Membership and Dues

In order to participate in the 1974 NOW National Conference as a voting member, membership
dues must be received by the National Treasurer by February 28th.

Resolutions

Resolutions from NOW chapters and members may be submitted for consideration at the Con-
ference, with a deadline of February 28th. Further information will be forthcoming.

Nominations

Recommendations of candidates for the National Board of Directors and officers from NOW
chapters, state coordinators, regional directors, etc. may be submitted to the nominating com-
mittee no later than February 20th.

The “Recommendation of Candidate” form and job descriptions for the National Board will
appear in the January, 1974 issue of DO IT NOW. Nominating

Nominating Committee Chairperson is Judith Menli, 1126 HiPoint Street, Los Angeles, CA 90035.

L. I. NOW GAINS NEW MEMBER IN A VICTORY OVER “STAGS”

Nassau (Long Island, N. Y.) NOW came to the aid of a Long Island woman — with gain of a new  
member and victory over a ‘‘stag’’ dinner as its reward.

Petra Capon received an invitation to the $100-a-plate Pinter Tournament of Stars banquet, a  
charity event for the American Cancer Society emceed by Bob Hope. When she called to make  
reservations for 10 — a contribution of $1,000 — she was told the dinner was stag.

Ms. Capon contacted Nassau NOW. The case was taken to the New York State Human Rights  
Commission which ordered that women be allowed at the dinner.

Betty Schlein of Nassau NOW was among Ms. Capon’s guests. In all, about 100 women attended  
the banquet.

The many press reports quoted Ms. Capon’s intention to join NOW, “I never involved myself in  
any women’s liberation activities until it hit home,” she said. “I’m not against men, I'm for  
women.”

NOW AIDS N. J. WIN OVER LITTLE LEAGUE

A New Jersey court has ruled that the Little League in New Jersey must admit girls. The ruling  
was made November 7th following a long suit in which Judith Weis and Essex County NOW  
helped to refute testimony by Little League witnesses who claimed girls were not physically  
able to play baseball with boys.

Some reports say the Little League may take the case to the U. S. Supreme Court.

NATIONAL ACTION WILL HIT “CULT OF YOUTH”

December 19th is the date for actions by many NOW chapters throughout the country — all  
designed to combat the cult of youth as it applies to women.

According to Karen DeCrow, national coordinator for the action, “The tragedy of the cult of  
youth is not that men prefer young women, it is that we women begin to hate ourselves as  
we grow old.”

On December 19, 1853, Gerrit Smith, wealthy landowner, whose daughter Elizabeth first wore  
the bloomer dress, wrote to Elizabeth Cady Stanton: “So long as woman remains in her  
clothes-prison, she will be dependent and poor.” This year, NOW chapters will celebrate the  
100th anniversary of that letter.

Suggestions and background for this action have been sent to all NOW chapter presidents.  
For further information, contact Karen DeCrow, 116 Benedict Avenue, Syracuse, New York  
13210, (315) 474-1682.

CALIFORNIA NOW TASK FORCE TO COMBAT AGEISM

Is it “raging hormones” that make some menopausal women act out, or is it just plain rage?  
The need for feminist research in this area was stressed at the Workshop on Older Women at  
the California NOW State Conference, October 26-28. Job discrimination (both sexist and  
ageist), social security inequities and pension woes were also tackled. A task force was set up  
to “raise the consciousness of NOW members to ageism and the older women, as well as to  
implement programs to alleviate our problems.”  
Se hese Continued on Page 5

WASHINGTON BLUE SHEET

News from the NOW LEGISLATIVE OFFICE  
1107 National Press Building  
Washington, D. C. 20004  
(202) 347-2279  
Ann Scott — Legislative Vice President  
Elizabeth Cox — Legislative Staff  
Mary Vogel — Office Manager  

ABORTION  

ANTI-ABORTION AMENDMENT PASSES U. S. SENATE  

On October 2, 1973, Senator Jesse Helms (R-NC) introduced an amendment (No. 566) to the  
Foreign Assistance Act of 1973 which prohibits the use of funds for abortion services, research  
on abortion, and for abortifacient drugs and devices (which include menstrual extraction and  
IUDs the way anti-abortion groups define it). This amendment passed the Senate unanimously.  
(NOTE: There are no women Senators).  

ANTI-ABORTION AMENDMENT IN CONFERENCE  

This amendment is currently under consideration by the Joint Conference Committee on the  
Foreign Assistance Act. Members of NOW in the relevant states have already been contacted  
and urged to write, call, and/or telegram their Senators and Representatives if they are members  
of the Conference Committee.  

So far, we are holding our own and the mail is running 50:50. However, to make sure the Conferees  
are not persuaded at the last minute to support any anti-abortion language in either the bill or the  
Conference Report Statement, which accompanies the bill to explain it, and is often used as an  
alternative method of expressing “the Will of Congress,” NOW MEMBERS IN THE CONFEREES’  
HOME STATES SHOULD WRITE AGAIN EXPRESSING THEIR OPPOSITION TO ANY MOVE  
BY THE CONFERENCE TO DENY ACCESS TO ABORTION TO OUR SISTERS OUTSIDE  
THE UNITED STATES. NOW members living in these states should write to the designated  
person immediately: Senators Humphrey (Minn), Aiken (Vt), Fulbright (Ark), Church (Id), and  
Case (NJ); Representatives Tom Morgan (Pa), Zablocki (Wisc), Hays (Oh), Fascell (Fla), Mailliard  
(Ca), Frelinghuysen (NJ), and Broomfield (Mich).  

Furthermore, we cannot be sure that the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973 will contain no anti-  
abortion language until both the Senate and the House of Representatives have voted on and  
approved a Conference Report with no provisions against abortion services, research, and abortifacient  
drugs or devices in it.  

THEREFORE, ALL MEMBERS OF NOW ARE ASKED TO WRITE LETTERS, SEND PETITIONS,  
MAKE PHONE CALLS, AND OTHERWISE LET YOUR SENATORS AND HOUSE MEMBERS  
KNOW THAT WE WHOLEHEARTEDLY OPPOSE THIS ATTEMPT BY ANTI-ABORTION FORCES  
TO DENY OTHER COUNTRIES THE RIGHT TO PROVIDE GOOD HEALTH CARE, INCLUDING  
EARLY ABORTIONS, TO THE WOMEN NOW LIVING AND POTENTIALLY DYING IN THOSE  
COUNTRIES IF THEY ARE DENIED OUR AID.  

FLASH! On November 13th, the Conference Committee voted to include anti-abortion language  
in the Foreign Assistance Act of 1973. This was after assurances from members of the committee,  
including Senator Humphrey, that no anti-abortion language would be included. WRITE AND  
DEMAND A REVERSAL OF THIS ACTION!

MANDATORY PREGNANCY LEAVES

Recently there has been a great deal of litigation by women challenging the various mandatory
pregnancy leave statutes, regulations and policies. Many courts have declared mandatory pregnancy
leaves to be unconstitutional. A definitive ruling is expected soon from the United States Supreme
Court in the case of La Fleur v. Cleveland Board of Education, (465 F. 2d 1184). NOW has filed
an amicus curiae brief in La Fleur.
The successful cases to date are as follows:

1. unmarried pregnant hospital employee —

a. Doe v. Osteopathic Hospital of Wichita Inc., 333 F. Supp. 1357 (1972, Kansas);
2. pregnant teachers —

a. Bravo v. Board of Education, 345 F. Supp. 155 (1972, Illinois);

b. Cerra v. East Stroudsburg Area School District, 299 A. 2d 277 (1973, Pennsylvania);

c. Green v. Waterford Board of Education, 345 F. Supp. 501 (1973, Connecticut);

d. Heath v. Westerville Board of Education, 345 F. Supp. 501 (1972, Ohio);

e. La Fleur v. Cleveland Board of Education, 465 F. 2d 1184 (1972, Ohio), pending
U.S. S. Court);

f. Pocklington v. Duval County School Board, 345 F. Supp. 163 (1972, Florida);

3. social worker —

a. Williams v. San Francisco Unified School District, 340 F. Supp. 438 (1972, California);
4. member of the armed services —

a. Robinson v. Rand, 340 F. Supp. 37 (1972, Colorado).

In all of the cases it was found that mandatory pregnancy leave statutes, regulations and policies
discriminate on the basis of sex. Selecting a certain indiscriminate period of time that a medical
leave must be taken for pregnancy is arbitrary and discriminatory because only pregnancy and
not other prolonged medical ailments were subject to these restrictions. Since pregnancy is a
physical condition exclusive to women, such restrictions discriminate on the basis of sex. The
courts held that medical leaves for pregnancy, like those for all other physical conditions, should
be determined individually based on a doctor’s evaluation. The selection of arbitrary dates has
no rational relationship to the performance of duties.

The arguments that have been successful in overturning these statutes, regulations and policies are:
that they are based on stereotypes that have no more place in our society than racial or religious
stereotypes; advance notice of when the woman plans to leave is as good as an arbitrary date to
allow provisions to be made for the person’s absence, and any emergency can be handled in the
same manner as emergency leaves not for pregnancy; There is as great if not greater continuity
when the leaves are not done by arbitrary dates; some of these provisions were based on outdated
concepts (children giggling at the sight of a pregnant teacher); administrative convenience or the
saving of money is not a defense when a constitutional right is in question. However, in the
Robinson case, the woman in the armed services, the court stated that a woman who was pregnant
and in the armed services could not be forced to resign, but could probably be transferred out of
a combat zone.

Most of these cases were based on the violation of the equal protection clause (some were based
also on the due process clause) of the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. (The
Pennsylvania case (Cerra) used a state human rights statute and the armed services case (Robinson)
used the equal protection clause of the Fifth Amendment because it was a federal and not state
body being charged.)

When a person finds herself being affected by a mandatory pregnancy leave statute, regulation or
policy, she should take the following steps:
xy oe Continued on Page 7

1. Request that the mandatory leave not be enforced and provide evidence such as a letter  
from her doctor that she is physically capable of performing her duties until a given time.  
If there is a union, she should ask the union to assist her in challenging the pregnancy  
policy.

2. If the superiors do not answer right away or give a negative reply, she should file a  
complaint (or ask NOW or her union to file on her behalf) with the Equal Employment  
Opportunity Commission (E.E.O.C.) in her area and/or the State Fair Employment  
Agency, if one exists.

3. If the E.E.O.C. cannot settle the situation within 6 months, the woman, upon request,  
will be given leave to file suit in the Federal District Court. If her employer is a govern-  
ment body, she can file directly in Federal District Court without going through the  
E.E.O.C. or the state agency, challenging the policy on constitutional grounds.

4. The suit should be for reinstatement, back wages, any increase in salary which would  
have been forthcoming had the woman not been forced to take the pregnancy leave,  
any other damages incurred from the mandatory leave, court costs and lawyer’s fees  
and an injunction of any further enforcement of such mandatory pregnancy leaves.

JUDICIAL QUOTE OF THE MONTH:

‘The distinguishing factor seems to be motherhood versus fatherhood. The question then arises:  
Is this sex-related? To the simple query the answer is just as simple: Nobody — and this includes  
Judges, Solomonic or life-tenured — has yet seen a male mother. A mother, to oversimplify the  
simplest biology, must then be a woman.’ *** ‘Female employees are the only employees . . .  
who become pregnant; it follows that they are provisionally dismissed from work on account  

of their sex . . . '*** “To me, the discrimination is obvious.” Fourth Circuit Court of  
Appeals Judge Winter, dissenting in Cohen v. Chesterfield, (companion case in the Supreme  
Court to La Fleur).

The NOW Public Information Office is putting together a bibliography of special NOW publications  
(other than newsletters) — those published by chapters or by task forces. Please send a list of  

your chapter's or task force’s publications to the NOW Public Information Office, 641 Lexington  
Avenue, New York, NY 10022.

1974 DO IT NOW COPY DEADLINES (January deadline was December 3)

February — January 7 August — July 8  

March — February 4 September — August 5  

April — March 4 October — September 6  

May — April 5 November — October 7  

June — May 6 December — November 6  
July — June 7 January, 1975 — December 6  

If you have information for DO IT NOW, be sure to send it in to the Editor AS EARLY AS  
POSSIBLE. Send DO IT NOW items to the NOW Public Information Office, 641 Lexington  
Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.  

= Pe

SOME USEFUL ARGUMENTS AGAINST THE AMENDMENT

1. The Helms amendment completely ignores the U. N. Statement of Human Rights which declares that it is a fundamental human right to be able to control the size and spacing of one’s family; it further ignores the statement in American Jurisprudence which declares: if the right to privacy means anything, it must include the fundamental right to decide whether to bear or beget a child.

2. The Helms amendment seeks to impose a view on foreign countries which is neither held by a majority in this country nor held constitutional by our nation’s highest judicial body, the U. S. Supreme Court.

3. The Helms amendment further violates the sovereignty of other countries by ignoring the fact that abortion is legal and included among the regular health services in many of those countries which receive U. S. aid.

4. The Helms amendment ignores the basic health care needs of the women living in the less-developed countries who rely quite heavily on abortion as a means of fertility control because contraception and family planning services are not available.

See your chapter's Reproduction Task Force Coordinator for additional arguments. She should have received them in a communication from the national coordinator by now.

THANKS FOR YOUR LETTERS

Thanks to all of you who are sending us the Congressional responses to your abortion letters. We’re getting a dozen or more each day and we love it. But we still don’t have any letters from these states: Pennsylvania, Vermont (don’t forget Senator Aiken is a member of the Joint Conference Committee considering the Helms amendment), Maryland, Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Delaware, Hawaii, and Maine. Please get us those letters and keep them all coming! We've been having quite a chuckle over some of the responses we have received. We're thinking of giving a prize to the Member of Congress who can use the most words to say the least. It’ll be a rough choice.

STUDENT MEMBERS OF NOW

The Legislative Office is again accepting interns for the 1974 winter semester.

Interns will be given an assignment in a specific area of the LO program and will work closely with the Legislative Vice President and the LO staff. This semester one of our interns is working on abortion, another on desexing the Federal Code and another on the ERA.

Preference will be given to those students able to work full time for at least one semester. We don’t pay anything and we can’t finance your travel to Washington, but we will pay local transportation expenses.

CREDIT HEARINGS

By the time this newsletter reaches you, Sharyn Campbell, national Credit Task Force Coordinator, will have testified for NOW on the subject of discrimination because of sex or marital status in credit transactions and legislation needed to remedy it. The House Consumer Affairs Subcommittee, chaired by Leonor Sullivan, invited Sharyn to testify at oversight hearings on November 13, 1973.

CONTINUE TO WRITE YOUR REPRESENTATIVE WITH YOUR PERSONAL EXPERIENCE OF CREDIT DISCRIMINATION AND REQUEST HER/HIS SUPPORT FOR LEGISLATION THAT WILL END SUCH DISCRIMINATION. (NOW is not supporting any particular piece of legislation on the House side at this time.)

PRAYERS IN CONGRESS

Coordinator of NOW’s National Task Force on Religion, Joyce Slayton Mitchell, did some research on the number of women invited to offer the daily prayer in the House and in the Senate, and has discovered that only five women have done so in the history of the nation.

About two times a month in the Senate and four times a month in the House, the Chaplains step aside while someone invited by a Member of the respective house offers the invocation. Perhaps your chapter can suggest names of women to invite to your Senators and Representatives.

R

CONGRATULATIONS!! AFL-CIO & NOW MEMBERS

On October 22, 1973 the AFL-CIO passed the following resolution:

RESOLVED: that the tenth biennial convention of the AFL-CIO endorses the Equal Rights 
Amendment to the U. S. Constitution as precisely the kind of clear statement
of national commitment to the principle of the equality of the sexes under the
law that working women and their unions can use to advantage in their efforts
to eliminate employment discrimination against women, and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that state labor federations, in states which have not yet
ratified the ERA, urge their legislatures to act favorably .....

In a letter to George Meany, President of the AFL-CIO, NOW President Wilma Scott Heide and
Legislative Vice President Ann Scott wrote: “This is indeed a momentous day. (The) AFL-CIO’s
significant role in the democratization of the basic legal document of this land will be of historic
import; “As we have in other areas in the past, NOW looks forward to one more endeavor where
AFL-CIO will work with us in common cause for the completed ratification of the ERA. NOW’s
Legislative Office and the State Legislative ERA Coordinators will welcome cooperative arrangements
providing information to facilitate effecting speedy ERA ratification in at least a necessary eight of
the states where ratification has not yet been accomplished.”

The campaign for AFL-CIO endorsement was led by the women in the union movement and many of
the unions which had already endorsed. The AFL-CIO Constitution was also amended to read “To
encourage all workers without regard to race, creed, color, sex, national origin or ancestry to share
equally in the full benefits of union organization.”

Congratulations NOW members who lobbied so effectively for this tremendous endorsement. The
combination of the inside/outside alliance of women and men for ERA culminated in terrific victory!

ERA RATIFICATION COUNCIL RESOURCE CENTER

The ERA Ratification Council is composed of national organizations working for ERA. The Council
voted to establish a resource center to gather all materials on the ERA in one place, or at least a
reference card on each item. Common Cause offered to “house” the Center and provide some volun-
teers to help set it up. NOW Legislative Office has provided assistance in designing a cataloging system
which is complete with a cross reference. The cross reference will be able to indicate such things as:
Is there a study of sex discrimination in criminal law in Iowa? What kind of hearings were held in
New Mexico? N. H.? etc. NOW Legislative Office Intern, Connie Abrashoff (Trinity College) has
screened all our files and typed entry cards for the Center. An extra set of cards of our files will be
kept in our office. Upon request, the Center will answer inquiries and inform you of materials listed
in the Center and where you might obtain the material. The Center will not send materials or copies.
All member organizations of the Council will be able to make inquiries and to go to the Center to use
materials on file. This is a really big effort and every NOW member is needed to make it successful.
Please send us bibliographies of your personal collection — and, if possible, copies of your materials.
Connie will type entry cards and place them in the Center index. The Center plans to publish a
catalog of all entries. A notice will be placed in the Washington Blue Sheet when the catalog is com-
pleted and the Center is ready for use.

PLEASE PROVIDE AS MUCH INFORMATION, AND MATERIAL AS POSSIBLE. THE 2 YEARS
FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ERA BEGINS TO LOOK SHORTER EVERY DAY AS
RATIFICATION COMES CLOSER. THIS CENTER WILL PROVIDE IMMEDIATE ACCESS TO
VALUABLE INFORMATION FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION.

FIRST CLASS MAIL  
U.S. POSTAGE  

PAID 8¢  
PERMIT No. 2992  

> - Our Road Services Office FIRST CLASS  

Chicago, Illinois 60649  

107000 01 093573  
Frances M. Doughty  

£3 Week Bt  

New York, NY 10001  

RHEE EERE RHEE EHH HHHHHHEHHHHHHHHHHEHH HHH HE  

FOLLOW UP: JUDICIAL SEXISM ACTION  

From: Karen De Crow, Coordinator  
116 Benedict Avenue  
Syracuse, New York 13210  

‘Now that we have begun to  
alert the country to the ab-  
sence of women on the bench  
via theatrical presentation, it  
is time to plan for concrete  
follow-up. Judges are either  
elected or appointed. Appoin-  
ted judges are appointed by  
the Mayor, if they are city  
judges; by the Government if  
they are state judges; and by  
the President if they are feder-  
al judges. Elected judges are  
nominated by the political  
parties.  

“Find out now when the next  

slate in your area will be nomi- Syracuse NOW members were among the chapters that participated  
nated for election or appoint- in the recent judicial sexism action. From left to right, the ‘“justices’’  
ment. Put pressure on execu- are: Evelyn Zaleen, Ruth Zaleon, Rocki Malamud, Ellie Young,  

: ie Karen De Crow, Nola Claire, Lillian E. Reiner, Berth  
cael ite npeaie “ ee  
Photo by Ruth Putter  

“Contact the local bar association, and ask to present a program on sex discrimination in the law.  
Call me for further suggestions, and for details on the laws and practices in your state.’

"Do It NOW Monthly Newsletter of the National Organization for  
Women December, 1973." Do It Now, Dec. 1973, pp. [1]+. Archives of  
Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/YLQHUOO  
19022317/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark  
-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.