WOMEN! ATTEND  
YOUR PRECINCT  
CAUCUS: FEB. 22  

_ FIRST WOMEN STUDENTS ENROLL AT DUNWOODY  
GONORRHEA:  
HOW TO FIX YOUR CAR & KEEP IT RUNNING  
Caution FROM A WOMAN IN-PRISON——__ _______—__—-—  
SPECIAL SECTION: MINNESOTA WOMEN’S POLITICAL CAUCUS——1  

FEBRUARY 72 VOLUME I, NUMBER 3

2

At Dunwoody Institute

First Woman Student Enrolls

in Auto Mechanics Course

by Shirley Heyer

The first two women to ever enter Dunwoody Industrial Institute began full-time classes there this winter. Dunwoody, one of the best-known trade schools in the nation, has been an all-male institution for 57 years.

One of the women is Pamela Spence, 24, an ex-college student and Army veteran (she served with the U.S. Intelligence Agency from 1965-68). She is taking an 18-month course in auto mechanics and eventually hopes to open her own garage.

The other woman student is Pat Schaeffer, 18, from New England, N.D., who is enrolled in a one-month baking course in cake decorating. She graduated from high school last spring and came down to Minneapolis to take the course in order to get a job with a baking company in Dickinson, N.D.

Pam said she picked Dunwoody "because of its reputation for training people in the trades. It's really thorough and gives you the kind of background you need to be a competent tradesman."

Getting into the school, however, wasn't as easy as making the initial choice. She first called Dunwoody in July of 1971 about entering their January 1972 auto mechanics class. "They said no," she said, "because they didn't take women--they were a men's school. I said that I didn't think they could be a men's school and to please send me an application anyway. They did."

Pam's initial efforts were followed up with a phone call in which "a different man told me they were a men's school and wouldn't take an application from a woman."

After that phone call, Pam contacted the Minnesota Department of Human Rights "to be advised of my legal rights. They said Dunwoody would have to admit me. So, I filled out the application and took it to Dunwoody.

"The admissions officer said he would take my application, but he didn't know if I would be accepted, because I was a woman and because the class might already be full," she said.

Early in fall, while she was in Illinois visiting her family, Pam received a call from Dunwoody telling her that the board had voted to let her in, "that I would be admitted to the January class even though there was no room."

"I think that the boys that are in my classes are no trouble," Pam said. "I don't get any special treatment, nor do I ask for it. I'm just as competent and do just as well. In fact, I'm maybe doing too well for some of them, because that's what one of the boys said one day -- as if to imply that I had no right to do better than the guys, being a mere woman and all that malarkey."

In the hallways and lunchroom, "they are sometimes obnoxious and usually crude. I'm constantly being stared at, or whistled at, or hearing crude remarks. But none of this really upsets me, because that's the type of behavior I expect from men.

"To yell at me across the lunchroom, 'Is it a boy, or is that a girl?' -- that seems to give them a great deal of satisfaction, and, of course, they think it's really hot shit -- they whistle sarcastically -- which means I no longer eat in the lunchroom.

"At first," Pam said, "I thought it was hiding out. But now I don't because I can only take so much strain and because I have only so much energy. I can't improve the situation by myself, so now I eat in the women's lounge and don't have much contact with boys other than those in my classroom.

"They think," she said, "that if they're man enough, I'll go away -- drop out of school and never come back. I think if they don't like me, they can go away. I also think things will get better when some more women come -- because then they will see that doing these things won't make women go away.

"Just making women feel uncomfortable is not going to make them go away. There is more to women than just tough."

Pam added, "I wear functional clothes. I think they are giving me a bad time for not being 'feminine.' That word is not in my vocabulary. As far as I'm concerned, I was born a woman and don't have to spend the rest of my life proving it.

"So, I do my work and I behave in a friendly manner, only I do not behave in the manner they expect me to (that is, feminine). So, I consequently have trouble with them."

(continued on page 3)

Dunwoody

(continued from page 2)  
Pam said that the administration has been generally okay, except that one day "I got a pep talk from the President--how I was their guinea pig," Pam said. "Their guinea pig! That really irritated me, after the shit to get into their school, I was their guinea pig--as if an experiment to see if women could make it."

Because of all this, Pam is actively recruiting women to enroll at Dunwoody, because "I can't change things by myself." She would like to see some women enrolled for courses starting next September, but programs get filled up early and women interested should get applications in right away. Programs offered include printing, electricity, electronics, auto body, highway surveying, auto mechanics, baking, and refrigeration among others.

"I figure," Pam said, "it will get better when other women come. So I want to actively recruit women to come to Dunwoody and other schools like it."

Pat Schaeffer came to Dunwoody because "if I come down here, I have a job for sure."

She graduated from St. Mary's Catholic High School, which is a boarding school in New England, N.D., last spring and spent most of the summer looking for work.

She finally went to Dickinson, N.D., about 30/40 miles west of New England and slightly larger in population (20,900 compared with 6,000), to see what she could find there. She also has a sister in Dickinson, who works for an automotive company as a bookkeeper.

“Bookkeeping's just not my bag," she said. She wanted to work in a bakery doing cake decorating and was offered a job at a baking company in Dickinson if she took the course at Dunwoody. Her prospective employer had received his training at Dunwoody and recommended the course to her.

Pat applied last November and was accepted for the January course. She is not taking the full baking course, but just the one month in which the class concentrates on cake decorating.

"I decorate all the time--so when the other guys are in class studying baking formulas and so on, I decorate," she said.

Pat's comments about women's liberation were “ick." She does not feel any particular discrimination at the school.

She was somewhat apprehensive at first, she said, "after I read all those pamphlets describing the school --men, men, men. All those pictures of men and no women.

“And when I received the housing lists and checked them out they said they had only kept boys and hadn't heard of any women ever going there."

"It's a little different," Pat said, referring to the baking course. "That's something a girl would do... I was surprised to see all those men. I never could figure it out, how those men could do that delicate work. You should see those big guys down there."

Asked what she would have done if she had been denied admittance to Dunwoody, Pat said she probably would have "gone ahead... just like you. But I don't go in for women's liberation. I think a woman should be a woman.”

“She knows her place and I don’t.”

We welcome news stories, poetry, photography, personal and political commentaries by and for women. Contact us at P.O. Box 8341, La

is published monthly.

a twin cities newspaper for women

"She said she doesn't get a hard time at school. That's because she acts as women are expected to act, quote, ‘behaves as a woman is supposed to behave'. She knows her place and I don't, because I don't think I have a place any more than they have a place," Pam Spence said.

Pam hopes to open her own garage someday, because "Being a mechanic is relevant to women's issues. Women get robbed at garages and humiliated because of their ignorance of mechanical things. Garages and mechanics don't humiliate men, even men who know just as little.

"What I would like to do is set up a service station run by women mechanics to take care of women's cars and to operate as a training place. Women need cars to get to jobs. Everyone who drives should know minimum maintenance."

In addition to her experiences at Dunwoody, Pam has been married and divorced, after working to put her husband through college. After her husband graduated, she started college, but didn't find it relevant.

"I also had to pay for all the groceries," Pam said. "I had to pay for my own way. I had a job and was going to school. We had just bought a house and paid for remodeling out of my G.I. Bill. He was thinking of charging me room and board because we weren't getting along too well.

"He wanted me to conform to a lot of roles which are common to married women. And I couldn't do it. It didn't seem very meaningful. So we both decided that I couldn't be in a marriage situation. We didn't have any children and I was free to make the choice."

Pat Schaeffer graduated from high school. She is one woman among six brothers and a sister. After failing to find a job the summer after graduation, she spent the next few months at home taking care of her younger brothers.

Her parents don't mind her coming to Minneapolis and going to school. "Just so long as I don't get married, they're happy,” she said.

Pat is looking forward to going back to Dickinson, N.D., where she will be an apprentice for about a year. She expects to earn $115 a week, "something like that" to start, and more in the future, particularly when she replaces the bakery owner when he goes on vacations, since he is the only one now who does cake decorating.

BY MARY ANN JUNI (Women's Couns. Service) & CHRIS ANDERSEN (Seneca Falls)

Veneral Disease is one of the most serious  
health problems facing the American people.  
Gonorrhea, one type of veneral disease now  
rages as a pandemic: an epidemic which  
strikes everywhere in all geographic loca-  
tions, economic classes, sexes, and races.  
One out of every 100 Americans has the dis-  
ease; the only illness which strikes more  
often is the common cold.  

The disease is especially disastrous for  
women. Most often we aren't aware that we  
have it; our bodies may show us no symptoms,  
and there is no fully reliable means for  
diagnosing the disease in us. When allowed  
to spread unchecked through our bodies the  
disease can infect our tubes, bladder, and  
rectum, eventually causing arthritis, de-  
stroying our eyesight, and interfering with  
our ability to conceive, carry, or deliver  
healthy babies.  

Obviously Gonorrhea did not develop to  
"pandemic" proportions overnight, the seri-  
ousness of the problem has not only recently  
been discovered by those in authority,  
nor is gonorrhea so mysterious or as diffi-  
cult to treat as the more "glamorous" dis-  
eases like cancer or heart disease. Yet  
almost no resources have been expended by  
the government or the private health indus-  
try to do anything about this problem which  
plagues our people.  

To probe all the possible reasons for  
that situation would take at least another  
column. One obvious reason is that there  
isn't much money to be made in the simple  
but massive VD testing and treatment or VD  
research needed to solve this “people's pro-  
blem". But another major—though more sub-  
tle—factor has to do with the "unhealthy"  
sexist attitudes promoted in our society.  

We are prevented from getting information  
which accurately describes the symptoms of  
VD without passing moral judgment—espe-  
cially if we are young. Because the disease  
is related to our sexuality, we are made to  
feel embarrassed and ashamed of seeking tes-  
ting or treatment.  

It makes sense that we should be discour-  
aged from seeking help, since there is hard-  
ly any help provided—particularly if we  
are reluctant or can't afford to see our pri-  
vate physician.  

The VD crisis cannot be solved or similar  
crises avoided until drastic overhauls are  
made in the way health care is controlled  
and delivered. Meanwhile, the purpose of  
this article is to spread some vital infor-  
mation about gonorrhea—how we get it, what  
it does to our bodies, how we can prevent it  
and how it can be cured, where to go in the  
Twin Cities for help and what kind of care  
we must expect and demand from these ser-  
vices.  

In other words, it's a survival tactic.  

How it is contracted  

Gonorrhea is contracted only through sex-  
ual contact. It is spread by a bacteria  
called gonococcus, which is extremely sensi-  
tive to changes in temperature. The optimum  
climate for the bacteria is the genitals or  
an environment similar in moistness and temp-  
erature, like the urethra or cervix. The  
gonocci work their way into the body through  
the genital passages and can be spread to  
others at all stages of the infection.  

Symptoms  

Women infected with gonorrhea often have  
no visible symptoms until the disease is  
fairly well advanced. Early symptoms a wo-  
man may or may not have are a slight yel-  
low-green vaginal discharge coupled with  
vaginal burning and itching, and/or pain or  
burning with urination. It is important for  
us to understand that most women infected  
with gonorrhea do not have these symptoms,  
and those who do can easily attribute them  
to normal vaginal discharge or slight vagin-  
al or bladder infections. Oftentimes, not  
until the infection has worked its way into  
the fallopian tubes, which causes serious  
abdominal pain, will a woman suspect gonor-  
rhea.  

Later symptoms or results of well advanced  
gonorrhea in women include: sterility, arth-  
ritis, blindness, infected tubes, bladder  
and rectum. Gonorrhea can also be transmit-  
ted to a baby during birth through contact  
with the birth canal. It usually causes  
blindness in babies.  

With men, the situation is somewhat dif-  
ferent. Early symptoms are reliable de-  
termining factors, and it is rare that a man  
infected with the disease has no early symp-  
toms. Within a few days of initial infec-  
tion, men notice a pus discharge from their  
penis and a burning sensation while urinat-  
ing. Symptoms occurring as the infection ad-  
vances include sore, swollen testicles, an  
infected bladder, infected seminal vesicles.  
Still later in the well-advanced stages the  
effects are sterility, arthritis, blindness,  
and eventually death.  

As a result the symptoms in men are dis-  
turbing enough for him to seek medical at-  
tention, but in most cases a woman remains  
ignorant of her infection until she is  
alerted by an infected male with whom she  
has recently had sexual intercourse, traced  
by a public health service casefinder as a  
named sex contact, or her own infection has  
spread causing sufficient pain to prompt her  
to see a doctor.  

Diagnosis and detection  

There are two types of tests used to de-  
tect gonorrhea—the gram stain and the cul-  
ture—neither of which are 100% reliable for  
women. The gram stain is the least reliable.  
It involves taking a smear of vaginal dis-  
charge for women and urethral discharge for  
men, placing it on a slide, staining it with  
dye, and examining it under a microscope for  
gonorrhea germs. This test is 99% reliable  
for men. It is highly unreliable for women,  
(although it is still the only test used in  
many places) and should not be trusted with-

out _an accompanying culture. The culture is  
obtained by placing some of the same dis-  
charge on a culture medium, allowing it to  
grow for several days, and examining it un-  
der a microscope for gonocci. Unfortunately  
the culture is also unreliable. Many cul-  
tures die between the doctor's office and  
the lab. To insure that cultures survive,  
special incubators have been developed for  
use in doctor's offices and clinics, so the  
culture can be immediately placed in a ben-  
eficial environment.  

It should also be noted that the vagina is  
not the only place where the infection can  
start and be detected. Infections can start  
in one of four places: the urethra, cervix,  
vagina, and rectum. It is usually impos-  
sible for the doctor to do a culture from  
all four places, but cultures for women  
should be taken from at least the cervix and  
rectum. The cervical culture is about 82%  
reliable, and studies show that 50% of women  
infected with gonorrhea have infections in  
the rectum. It is important that we demand  
at least these two cultures to insure a  

Treatment  

The treatment for gonorrhea is a high dose  
of penicillin or antibiotics. Since the  
1930's, when penicillin was first used to  
treat gonorrhea, the dosage needed to get  
rid of the infection has been rising. The  
gonococcus has become highly resistant to  
penicillin and one strain coming from Viet  
Nam is totally resistant to the drug. Pres-  
ently, 4-8 million units (the largest quan-  
tity injectable at one time) is required to  
stop the infection in women, and 2.4 million  
units is required for men. These high dos-  
ages can only be administered by injection.  
Beware of any doctor who prescribes oral  
penicillin for gonorrhea; the bacteria will  
only become more highly resistant, because  
the dosage is not big enough to kill it, but  
only creates an environment in which it can  
get used to the penicillin.  

For persons allergic to penicillin, or  
when it is ineffective, antibiotics like  
tetracycline and vibramycin are used. An-  
other method of treatment uses oral proben-  

ALIVE AND TRUCKING THEATRE  

PRESENTS  

“PIS IM A BLAMRET’  

Fri-sat-sun FEB. 18-19-20  
25-26-27  

Yarns for  
weaving, knitting  
and macrame,  

looms, beads, and  

candlemaking  
supplies.  

8 p.m.  

425-13th Avenue SE  

WAX MUSEUM  

419 W. LAKE ST.  

NEW & USED RECORDS  
AT THE RIGHT PRICES  

TRACK TAPES.......  

on the west bank  

EARTH WORKS  
407 CEDAR  

Mpls. Minn. 55404  

B 4.99  

acid, a drug which retards urination so  
penicillin levels will stay high for a long-  
er period of time.  
Test for cure  

After treatment, a woman should have two  
negative culture tests before the doctor  
sends her away cured. If these subsequent  
cultures are positive, retreatment with  
double the initial dosage is recommended.  
In men the disappearance of the symptoms  
like the discharge is usually enough evid-  
ence to show that he has been cured.  

Where to go for help  

Responsibility for providing adequate  
testing and treatment to keep VD under con-  
trol lies in the hands of the state and city  
health departments. Obviously this respons-  
ibility is not being met.  

The St. Paul Health Department operates  
one clinic expressly for VD testing and  
treatment in the entire city. The clinic is  
located in the downtown headquarters of the  
city's health department: 555 Cedar Ave.  

227-7741  
The clinic is open from 8:00 am - 4:30 pm (not  
overly convenient for people with jobs!)  

The Minneapolis Health Department current-  
ly operates NO VD clinic in their city, at  
least at the time of this printing. A VD  
clinic will be opening (hopefully-finally)  
in February. The clinic will be located at  
527 Park Ave., open from 11 am - 7 pm. The  
service will be free, but patients will be  
asked to make a donation.  

Meanwhile, in Minneapolis, the main source  
of testing and treatment is none other than  
the General Hospital emergency room. We are  
told that the best hours to be tested there  
(the place is open 24 hours a day) are early  
morning before 8:00 am or evenings after 9 pm.  

The various free clinics throughout the  
Twin Cities provide this service free, and  
women who are enrolled in the various birth  
control and maternity-infant care programs  
operated by the city health departments are  
also screened for VD.  

For more information about VD, where to go  
for testing, or for copies of informational  
pamphlets, contact the Women's Counseling  
Service 827-3819.  

JOIN UofM  
WOMEN’S LIBERATION  

MEETINGS: every WED., 3:30 pm, Women's Lounge  
Coffman Union  

OFFICE: 203 Coffman  
PHONE: 373-0033  

THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE CRADLE  

Dinkytown SHOULD ROCK THE BOAT!

How to Fix Your Car and Keep It Running

This is the first install-
ment of a series of articles
written by a female mechanic.
The articles will be directed
toward helping women who want
to maintain their own cars.
This first article will deal
with the information, tools,
and sources for parts that
you will need to carry out
the maintenance described in
subsequent installments. It
is suggested that you save
all of these articles and re-
fer back to them as needed.

The first thing that you
will need to work on your
car is information. This
series will provide general
information, but you will
need to know things which ap-
ply to your car in particu-
lar, such as quantities of
oil, sizes of spark plug gaps,
and other things known as
specifications. The best
way to get this information
is from a book written speci-
fically about your car. 
Such books are available in
paperback from parts stores,
discount stores, and by mail
order. If you can't get a
book that is only for your
car, you may have to get one
that covers several model
years, but get the one that
says the most about your car
in particular. Be sure that
it has tune-up specifica-
tions and procedures in it.
Another source of informa-
tion is the public library.
They commonly have the re-
ference manuals "Motors" and
"Chilton's" and "National Ser-
vice Data." Look in them
for your model and year, use
the indexes, there is no ot-
her way, and then get the
information you need and
write it down. These books
ordinarily cannot be checked
out of the library. A third
source of information is a
car dealership with a ser-
vice department that repairs
your brand of car almost ex-
clusively. They usually

BY BERTA KURPIERZ

(member of 'Gold Flower' staff)

Gay people and their sup-
porters picketed the Poodle
Bar in downtown Minneapolis
Friday, Feb. 4, because of

In January two women were
asked to leave because they
were dancing together. The
following night Gay Political
Activists (GPA) went to

the Poodle as straight cou-
ples. After a while the cou-
ples returned to their natur-
al gay couples. The manage-

Combination

Wrench

Wire Feeler Gauge

Tire Iron

have the best information,
but they may not be willing
to give it to you. It de-
pends on the dealership.
For most car maintenance
you will need a minimal a-
mount of tools. Some tools
may have come with your car,
a tire iron, bumper jack,
and maybe a wrench. In addi-
tion, you will need to buy
or borrow a couple screw-
drivers of different sizes,
a small set of inexpensive
wrenches, a flashlight, a
wire feeler gauge, and a
spark plug wrench. If you
have to buy wrenches, get
combination wrenches (hand
wrenches with one open end
and one box end) in sizes

Protest Continues at Poodle Bar

ment did not object--they
were quoted in the daily
newspapers as saying business
was slow that night anyway.
However, when the two women
returned again another night,
they were asked to leave
once more.

To meet this the GPA and
others decided to picket the
Poodle. The picket began at
about 9:30 p.m. and continued
until midnight. Approximate-
ly 100 persons picketed. Un-
like the first time gays pro-
tested at the bar, the
management wasn't as friend-
ly. One man gave me a hassle
because I was carrying "Gold

ranging from about 7/16 to
1 inch. Getting the right parts

may be your biggest problem.
When a part is defective,
you may have two or three
options--buy a new part,
a used part,

buy
fix the defective part. When you need a
new part, if possible, find
its part number in your
model book. To go to a
parts store you will need to
know the model and year of
your car, its cubic inch
displacement, and number of
cylinders. Depending on the
kind of part you need, there
may be additional informa-
tion that you will need to
have with you. When special
information may be required,
this series will explain how
to get it. When purchasing
new parts be sure to get and
keep the receipt so that if
it is the wrong part (not
uncommon), you can get your
money back or a new part.

Used parts may be accepta-
ble in some situations—they
can be purchased for sub-
stantially less than new
parts. Used parts can be
purchased from stores listed
as "Automotive Parts and
Supplies--Used & Rebuilt"
listed in the Yellow Pages—
call first. Before you buy
a used part, find out if you
can get your money back if
it is defective and take the
old part with you to make sure
you get the right replace-
ment part.

Sometimes parts can be re-
paired, but before doing so,
you should consider whether
the added useful life will
make up for whatever it
takes to fix the old part.
In addition, some parts of
an automobile are perishable
such as spark plugs, points,
and batteries. Their useful
lives will be extended
through proper maintenance,
but they will still have to
be replaced sometime.

Flowers." I had brought some
to give to the demonstrators.
One of the management asked
to see one and I handed him
one. He then asked if he
could have it and I asked if
he had a donation to help
pay for the paper. He then
yelled that there was no ped-
dling or soliciting allowed
and commanded a 7 foot, mus-
cular being to throw me out.
The first man also later
ripped off four of the pick-
et signs. One other hassle
was a woman who was 24—who

(continued on page 8)

BY KAREN KURTH

(member of the West Suburban  
Council for Women's Liberation)

There is a young woman named

Mary

Who finds the world quite  
contrary

Tho' smarter than Bob

They both found a job  
Now Mary is Bob's secretary

We've all seen it happen.  
Bright boy graduates go on  
Management training programs;  
bright girl graduates go to  
secretarial school. If they  
are good little secretaries,  
they may advance to the po-  
sition of executive secretary  
--that is, secretary to an  
executive. They will seldom  
if ever become executives  
themselves.

Take heart, sisters. New  
federal guidelines designed  
to correct this and other  
injustices go into effect  
soon. Under the new provi-  
sions (Department of Labor  
Order #4 under Title 41 of  
the Civil Rights Act of 1964,  
amended to include women as  
of March 4), compliance with  
the clause forbidding dis-  
crimination on the basis of  
sex will no longer be volun-  
tary. That is, it can no  
longer be ignored.

Employers with 50 or more  
employees and a government  
contract of $50,000 or more  
must develop written pro-  
grams of affirmative action.  
This means that each such  
employer must appoint a  
specific person responsible  
for administering the pro-

BY VICKI FAGRE

(artist and member of  
Flower's staff)

"Gold

Kate Millett has turned to  
the cinema. Her first film,  
Three Lives, is exciting and  
successful. The film is a  
confrontation with three wo-  
men: Mallory Millett-Jones,  
Kate's younger sister, divor-  
ced, in her 30's, mother of a  
small child; Lillian Shreve,  
a friend of Kate's, in mid-  
60's, who is looking for a  
new productive identity  
after having spent a life at  
child rearing; Robin Mide,

Out of the Typing Pool:  
What New Federal Guidelines Can Mean to Working Women

gram through the entire com-  
pany.

After issuing a policy  
statement affirming his sup-  
port of equal employment,  
and disseminating it widely,  
he must then undertake an  
exhaustive analysis of his  
company, in order to deter-  
mine the problem areas.  
Problem areas are defined as  
those in which members of  
the affected class (in this  
case women) are not properly  
represented, or where mem-  
bers of that class are under-  
utilized.

Once the problem areas are  
identified, the employer is  
required to develop a pro-  
gram stating what he plans  
to do to correct the situa-  
tion, and when, exactly, he  
plans to do it.

Some of the things he must  
do in the line of corrective  
action are to find out how  
many members of the affected  
class are available for em-  
ployment and their propor-  
tions in the population, con-  
tact all available community  
sources dealing with the af-  
fected class, actively re-  
cruit members of that class  
by advertising in minority  
newspapers, etc., and pro-  
mote, transfer, and train  
members of the affected  
class within the company.

The man who, with a staff  
of two, is responsible for  
all of this and more being  
done in regard to women, as  
well as racial, ethnic, and  
religious minorities in all  
affected industries in a  
three-state area, is Depart-  
ment of Defense Compliance  
Officer Ray Eiland.

Eiland explained to members  
of the Twin Cities NOW (Na-  
tional Organization for Wo-

Reviewer Likes Kate Millett’s New Movie

also a friend of Kate's, a  
young woman in the counter-  
culture, involved in theatre,  
lesbian. All three women are  
brilliant, fantastic,

neat people. All are seeking  
to integrate themselves  
into their worlds in new  
ways and all are struggling  
through various forms of  
identity crisis.

The film is very personal  
and marks a shift in dir-  
ection from the Millett we  
saw in Sexual Politics. In  
that work Kate's approach  
was analytical, propagan-  
distic, monumental in scope,

men) employment committee  
that the guidelines give in-  
dustries ample room for de-  
lay while they spend years  
preparing analyses hundreds  
of pages long and launch  
massive surveys to deter-  
mine the number of women in  
Bloomington, Minnesota.

He feels that the most  
realistic possibilities at  
present lie in the area of  
getting those thousands of  
overqualified women out of  
dead-end jobs and into the in-  
dustrial mainstream.

He plans to do this by  
matching up the records of  
women in the company (Mary  
Doe, aged 32, M.A. English  
Lit., perfect work record,  

9 years in the typing pool),  
with job descriptions in that  
same company, and the records  
of people now holding those  
jobs. It is awfully easy  
for a company to say that  
Mary can't be promoted to  
eighth assistant vice-presi-  
dent because that position  
requires a Ph.D. and 17  
years of experience, until  
you find that the guy who  
has the job now came in with  
one semester of college and  
two years in the Marine  
Corps.

Ultimately, the goal of  
this directive is to make a  
cross-section of industry  
match up with a cross-sec-  
tion of the local population  
of appropriate age. Admit-  
tedly most of this is a dis-  
tant vision at best.

It will require time,  
training, endless clarifica-  
tions from Washington, and a  
good deal of industrial con-  
sciousness raising.

Getting Mary out of the  
typing pool, however, is a  
very good place to start.

often glib in tone and  
necessarily hostile. Three  
Lives is very relaxed and  
open. Millett maintains the  
compare and contrast format  
she used in Sexual Politics;  
the use of in-depth studies  
of three different person-  
alities. In the movie, how-  
ever, she focuses down to  
the friendly world of her  
own personal environment.  
The people she looks at she  
knows and loves. She wants  
to experience them instead  
of abstracting from them.  
"Experience" is a key:

(continued on page 18)

Controversy of Poets

This is the third issue of  
"Gold Flower," and here is  
the third notice of the wo-  
men's poetry group. In the  
beginning we didn't intend  
either a series of reminders  
or a statement of purpose.  
The group was formless, try-  
ing out ideas and getting  
acquainted, so this might  
have been premature. The  
letter from two of our mem-  
bers in the second issue was  
perhaps just that, as well  
as only a partial exposure  
of our problems. Maybe if  
we explain in more detail  
what led up to this writing  
and where the group seems to  
be now, other women will be-  

come interested and any con-  
fusion will clear up.

An unknown friend publish-  
ed a short factual notice of  
the group in the November  
"Gold Flower." We were hap-  
py to see it. However, one  
of its statements touched a  
bone of contention among us  
--and dogs were heard to  
growl. I don't want this  
metaphor to bite the hand  
that fed it: no slur is in-  
tended! The word that the  
group was “interested in fur-  
thering the careers of women  
poets in the Twin Cities  
area" prompted two members  
to write a letter printed in  
the December/January issue.  
These women said that they  
were less interested in ca-  
reer or “personal cult" (as  
they put it) than in sharing  
the experience of expression  
with other women. Further,  
they disagreed with what  
they saw as the tendency of  
the group toward careerism.  
Once again the group as a  
whole knew nothing about it  
until we saw it.

From the beginning we've  
been split over purpose:  
should we concentrate on  
poetic craft, discussion of  
women's problems in art, sup-  
port in addition to criti-  
cism? or should we emphasize  
the public aspects of poeting  
by giving readings and pub-  
lishing, etc.? But we didn't  
articulate these differences  
to each other, and therefore  
became frustrated. No one  
objected to getting together,  
reading poems and talking a-  
bout writing. Most of each  
meeting was spent on just  
that. Occasionally an at-  
tempt at discussing a project  
would be made, but was always  
dropped without any plan de-  
veloped. Inevitably someone  
would say, "Aren't we going  
to hear any poems?" And in-  
stantly we stopped talking  

about action, as if it wasn't  
what we really came for.  
Since we didn't talk about  
how we felt when this kept  
happening, we never came to  

an understanding.

Finally at a meeting only  
a few attended, we did talk  
some about our different per-  
ceptions of the group. It  
was discovered that most dis-  
trusted any effort at wider  
recognition of group and/or  
individuals. This was "ca-  
reerism" and synonymous with  
competition, exaltation of  
the individual, power hunger,  
personal gain, etc. I can  
understand that women be-  
ginning to join together  
would fear duplicating the  
mistakes often made by male  
artists. But I don't be-  
lieve that these mistakes  
are unavoidable. We've be-  
gun as a group of poets who  
respect and support each  
other, avoiding competition  
--we can extend our collec-  
tivity into a larger situa-  
tion. I think our poetry  
should be heard by others,  
men as well as women, and  
that this speaking out is  
bound to strengthen our own  
work and our conception of  
woman as poet. We need mo-  
dels because there are few  
feminist poets.

Our solution (at this date)  
to the split is this: we  
will continue to meet regu-  
larly for the purpose of  
helping each other with ex-  
pression in poetry (and  
prose). Also, we will meet  
at different times to pursue  
active projects as they come  
up. Right now we're working  
on printing of our poems in  
postcard, bookmark and 8½ by  
11 broadside sheet forms.  
This will be done coopera-  
tively, with more emphasis  
on sharing our work than on  
profit. If a woman doesn't  
feel ready, she may choose  
to stay out of a project  
without dropping the group.  
The core seems to be the  
workshop situation, and it  
will probably stay that way.

I feel that we've strug-  
gled among ourselves and  
reached a satisfactory solu-  
tion for all--much better  
than an ideological split-up.  
We can work together, even  
in such an individual and  
private thing as art, and we  
can do without leaders and  
cults. The group is com-  
pletely open to new women.  
Call me, Penny Suess, 333-  
8580, or Mary Ellen Shaw,  
698-7052, for meeting times  
and more information.

friendlier outside.

Lack of Funds Cited

Liberation Office Closes

Dear Sisters,

We regret to announce  
the closing of the Female  
Liberation Office. Although  
your response to our appeal  
was heartening, nothing  
short of a massive outpour-  
ing of funds could have  
saved it. There was enough  
money to meet current ex-  
penses, but there was no-  
thing with which to pay the  
debt. Consequently, our  
credit was cut off, and with  
it our access to reasonably  
priced supplies. Without  
them we could no longer con-  
tinue. If you have things  
in the office, please get  
the key from the day care  
center and pick them up.

It is sad that the Twin  
Cities cannot support a wo-  
men's liberation office at  
this time. It is our hope  
that as the movement grows  
the need will become evident  
and support will be found  
for a new office.

In sisterhood,

The Staff

Poodle

(continued from page 6)

was carded. When she showed  
proper identification (driv-  
er's license and others), she  
was asked for two corrobora-  
ting signatures. Unable to  
present any, the checker ask-  
ed her to write her name on a  
piece of paper. She did and  
the checker said that she  
didn't write both of them.  
The woman didn't get in.

The atmosphere was much  
Ten to  
15 people were present most  
of the time. At 11 p.m. the  
largest group was present,  
including many men. (Before,  
it was mostly women.) One  
reporter came at about 11:15.  
After asking why the Poodle  
was being picketed, he asked  
the girl he was interviewing  
if “she was of that nature”  
--to which she responded,  
“Yes--I'm gay." The police  
came about then and asked if  
we had been hassled or heckl-  
ed. I was surprised--I  
thought that is what they  
asked the management. (Al-  
though there was an everyday  
bum--plain clothes policeman?  
-- with a walkie talkie on  
the corner.) By now it was  
about 11:30 and people were  
cold. The demonstrators  
either left or went inside.  
Since I wasn't inside, I  
don't know whether the gay  
couples were being hassled  
or not. I was also getting  
cold, so we left at midnight.

Prison Letter

Angela - in prison

Connie - in prison

My husband - in prison

Many close friends, who have struggled with
me, who have cared for me, whom I love,
every one.

In Prison!

Like every day of my existence is spent in
scaling those walls.

By every means possible.
necessary.

The walls must come down.

By any means nec-

Niki is a young and sensitive woman in Shako-
pee prison. I've seen her only once, very
briefly, but her writing has touched me
deeply. We share so many struggles. Her
clarity and perception help me to keep mov-
ing on. She agreed that women inside and
outside the joints must communicate, and
this is only a beginning. In future issues
there will be contributions from Niki and
other women in prison.

Today, this letter from Niki:

Dear Linda;

I was very pleased and excited about
your letter last night. It feels so good
to know that there are people out there who
care and allow themselves to become involv-
ed. It bridges the gap between the harsh
reality of prison and the memory of freedom.
Thank you for writing.

I'm glad you enjoy (or should I say un-
derstand) my writing. I never started shar-
ing my poetry and writing until I met Mim.
It was once my silent "release" of emotions,
anxieties and thoughts. But I feel good
knowing that other people can relate to my
struggles and our universal troubles. But
at times I find myself wondering if perhaps
it isn't in vain. (In my more dejected mo-
ments) I wonder if I can ever accomplish
something that will benefit society. Or if
these walls will silence that too.

In spite of the fact that women are
treated somewhat more humanely, the oppres-
sion is astounding. The physical conditions
are superficially glorified but the mental
punishment is impossible to function under.

THE FIRST SEX

WANT ADS

WOMEN IN THE TRADES
and women in trade
schools who are in-
terested in support-
ing efforts to get
women into the
trades should con-
tact Pam at 825-6945
& Bea at 335-0712.

(Wanted: Women to
start a house in St.
Paul. Call Barb at
224-3630.

Support

SHIRLEY CHISHOLM
unbought & unbossed

724-7163

HOURS

Mon. 3-9
Tues. & Wed. 3-6
Sat. 11-4

for U.S. President

and other feminist literature

AMAZON
BOOKSTORE

3240 CEDAR AVE.

(Cor call first)

We are told every day we are prisoners, and
have lost our rights, even the right to be
an individual, not verbally, but in move-
ments, expressions and looks. I sometimes
wonder if it is worth it to try. I wonder
why or what is this debt I am paying to so-
ciety. And I ask myself doesn't society
in return owe me something? It goes in cir-
cles. I ask questions and they rationalize
and make excuses.

I recently got classified here. They
recommended 18 months. Their excuse was
that since my past 5 years in institutions
was worthless, I need a long time to be
"cured." Yet they say (and I know) that I
am very institutionalized, but that can't
be helped. If the next 18 months proves
worthless, that is all there is. They can't
change that or prevent it becoming more of
a problem.

I received the issue of Gold Flower.

It is really good. The writing was beauti-
ful. I was particularly interested in the
article on Connie Trimble. She's a very
good friend of mine. She's a beautiful per-
son. I wonder every day what the result of
the trial will be. I envision her too in
prison. Because of the political controls.
But I hope I never have to see her here.
Connie is not a "murderess." And does not
need (or belong) in prison. I hope the
community gives her the moral support she
needs at trial. I wish I could be with her
then.

If you would continue to send the pa-
per I would really like it! I am planning
on sending some of my poetry too.

I am happy today. In spite of this
loneliness and infinite void shell I'm im-
prisoned in, there is sunshine. There is
a good, beautiful world out there, and peo-
ple to share it with. I have friends.

There is something more than these walls
and bars.

I will be glad to write to you. Your
letter was beautiful. I am also sending a
visitors’ form to you. In case you can stop
down sometimes. Thank you again for writ-
ing.

Yours in Struggle
Peace and Love
Niki

PEOPLE'S
COMPANY

1534 EAST LAKE

NATURAL FOODS

BREAD

GRANOLA

SARA SAYS

SARA SAYS

SARA SAYS

Whoever wrote this pamphlet is perpetrating
the feminine myth. What does it mean to
“do it like a woman?" One of the bad as-
pects of femininity, as defined by this pam-
phlet and most of our culture, is to use
our sex to get what we want--in this case
to dress neatly, to have an immaculate
hairdo, to be efficient and smile like a
machine. Is it necessary to dress and act
like this to get and keep a job? Is it
necessary to emotionally relate to the men
in the office on a sublimated sexual level
to maintain a happy working atmosphere? Is
there much difference between this and the
more obvious tweak in the boob or nip in
the bud that other women receive on their
jobs (waitresses, stewardesses, tour

guides...)? Both women and men are workers
and the jobs they do should not depend upon

their sexual identity. Relating to your-

self purely as a sexual object is self-
destructive.

Women are not by nature sensitive, sympa-
thetic, warm-blooded creatures. Rich women
can afford to be all of these things.

Since they don't have to worry about eco-
nomic things, they have the time to develop
these aspects of human nature. Most working
women also develop these qualities since
society says that it is their duty. Most
men never feel the need to develop sensi-
tivity, understanding, or compassion, be-
cause they rely on the women around them
and on female employees to handle this as-
pect of life. Men don't feel they have to
or can develop sensitivity to other people
since it would shatter their image of being
cold, clipped, and calculating. The so-
called feminine qualities are actually
human qualities which can and must be de-
veloped by all.

Pretending to take a customer's complaints
seriously while at the same time not ever
giving our reactions to the problem means
we're once again falling into our unthinking
role as women. Our role as women working
for bosses is to say exactly what the bosses
want us to say, but to do it in a sexual
way. We can get it across because we're
women (expected to think like a woman...
that is, sexual), whereas our bosses can't,
because they supposedly can't use that
tactic except in a domineering and
aggressive way.

Women get fired because they don't fit in.

SARA SAYS

SARA SAYS

This is a form of fascism. Being too honest
can get us fired. So, too, can doing our
jobs too well; or breaking the unwritten
rules of society (women thinking, making
suggestions to men, etc.). This is usually
what is meant when “personnel problems"
occur. Why are bosses always unaware of
these things--until notified by their
secretaries? And why do they accept this
system of dealing with people within their
offices? Is it because they are too
busy to be human? And while they are too
busy, secretaries are expected to smooth
over such problems, rather than to deal
with them. When things get too tough to
handle, then we can go running to our
bosses for help. What does this say about
the intelligence and ability of women?

Men have responsibility. Therefore, they
have the right to have temper tantrums when
they occur. Women "don't have responsibili-
ty." Therefore, we don't have the right to
have temper tantrums. Women never get an-
gry. If we do, our tempers are looked upon
as being petty and cute.

There is no need to tolerate any man who
gripes about his responsibilities since he
made it that way. No man need take total
responsibility for any situation since there
are women and other men around to share the
load.

Women do make decisions, both at home and
at work (unlike most men who have only one
area of decision-making--on the job). If
women do make decisions, then why are we
expected to not show our anger when things
go wrong? We are not superhuman and
neither are men. So, when things go wrong,
let's sit down, talk, analyze, and com-
municate--not cover up for one another.

ref Pam Says for women

The Economics Press, Inc. Fairfield, N.J.

THE FEMININE FEMALE

Whatever you forget today—don’t

forget to be feminine. Whatever you do,

between now and closing time, do it

like a woman. Whatever you overlook,
don’t overlook your sex,

And in case you forgot: a woman is a

graceful, charming, understanding

human being—even in the office. . .

Women are by nature sensitive, sympathetic, warm-blooded
creatures. It is part of their makeup to want to protect, pacify and
placate. Don’t stifle these instincts in yourself. Being businesslike
doesn’t mean being cold, clipped and calculating. Be sensitive to
the moods of your boss and fellow employees.

“He's been fighting a headache
all day... could I wait till morning?”

Could you rise to the occasion if you’re asked to handle an angry
customer? Womanly sympathy packs more wallop than a male
apology. Take his complaint very seriously, listen to what he has to
say, try to make an intelligent comment or suggestion—above all,
show you're concerned, using your female sensitivity and under-
standing. Sympathetic listening may turn that complaint into new
business!

“I don’t blame you, Mr. Jones...
I have Mr. Peters' calf.”

“Yet that's how they feel about
me here, I’m going to quit...”
Personnel problems can be anticipated
by a perceptive secretary. Growing friction between staff members may go
unnoticed by your boss—and explode
unpleasantly before he’s even aware
of it. If you see trouble coming, you
may be able to help smooth it over
yourself. If it’s too hot for you to
handle, the sooner your boss is aware
of it the better.

“Oh, and be forgiving. In these days when everyone stands on his
rights, demands satisfaction, resents interference, there’s such a need for tolerance
and forbearance. When your employer is tired, moody,
snappish—don’t take his brusque remarks personally.
Would your temper stay sweet
if you had his decisions to make, his responsibilities to
bear? Forget, forgive.

EMPLOYEES:

“PLEASE  
TAKE  
ONE  

and READ  

HAPPY NEW YEAR'S HOLDEN EMPLOYEES  

We want to wish you a happy New Year—  
and also want to express our feelings about a pamphlet  
which was passed out a few months ago to several of  
the workers at Holdens. The pamphlet is "Pam Says—  
The Feminine Female".  

What is femininity to you? Did the male  
employees get anything on how to be the "masculine  
male?" It's laid out really clearly what roles we  
are supposed to play. . .besides being a female  
office worker, we have to appeal to his emotions,  
his needs, his feelings. But what about OURS!  

Is it ever taken into consideration when we have  
headaches?  

When you enter the office, leave pettiness behind. Take with  
you your womanly tact, sympathy, and understanding.  

Make it your concern to help oil the wheels of the office operations,  

to keep it in smooth running order. Women in America have won  
emancipation—but have we lost the old  
gentleness and patience? Remember how King Lear spoke of his  
beloved daughter Cordelia after her death—“Her voice was ever  
soft, gentle, and low—an excellent thing in woman.” It’s a nice way  

to be remembered.  

The treasure of hate  
out of  

decisions are at the  
final readers  
work just be-  
some extra income, you are badly mistaken. Most  

women work because they have to.  

Pam says, "Do nothing."  
Sara says, “You may be an Uncle Tom. An  
Uncle Tom (forget the confusion in gender  
for a minute) is a girl who acts out a  
man's preconceived idea of her subservient  
role. Black people use the term to mark  
the "good Negro" who behaves according to  
a white racist stereotype. The black Tom  
pretends to be, or sometimes even believes  
that he is, dumb, oversexed, and a talented  
singer, dancer, and pole-vaulter.  
Because that's the way the whites would  
have it.  

Now, the feminists have appropriated the  
Tom label to describe a girl who "yes  
massah's" her man. Like the "good Negro,"  
she may do this consciously or unconsciously.  
Maybe she really believes that she's  
adorably helpless. Or, possibly, she has  
glimpsed the hypocrisy of the game that's  

being played but has decided it's the only  
one in town.  

As the feminists explain, a lady Tom ac-  
cepts privilege in place of responsibility.  
Her ability to do accessible or difficult  
work is discredited, and her thoughts, dis-  
counted as "female illogic." At the same  
time, she enjoys the flattery and "pro-  
tection" of her man. It's a psychological  
truism that we grow into the roles other  
people design for us...and so the Tom (fe-  
male version) becomes progressively more  
inept at so-called masculine activities,  
like thinking and working, and turns into  

WHAT WOULD YOU DO?  

You enjoy your work. The pay is good. The girls are easy to get along  
with. The office is pleasant. Your only gripe is your boss’s manner.  
Brusque, abrupt, rarely a kind word or touch of humor—you wonder  
sometimes if he knows you're alive, let alone appreciates you. It's hard  

on a girl. What would you do?  

1. Quit. Plenty of bosses do appreciate their staff.  
Why not seek a little limelight?  

2. Have a little talk with him. Use your womanly  
wiles to reform this blunt character.  

3. Nothing.  

(For Pam's Comment on your choice, see next page.)  

He's Changed. Used to be so PAM'S COMMENT:  

cold! Now he's almost human. 1. You might find an appreciative boss  
—but lose some of the advantages  
of your present job.  

2. No, no, no! Men don’t appreciate  
women who try to reform them.  

3. Certainly. Stick it out and stay your  
pleasant self. Give him time—he  
may not prove to be the ogre  
he seems.  

The incarnation of His Pampered Darling.  
The man's worship of woman as sex object  
"makes up" for her having been cheated and  
undermined in every other department.  
Ironically, the Tom girl is herself the  

System's most ardent defender. She stomps  
her little foot in rage whenever another  
woman suggests the female Tom may be uncer-  

privileged, insisting that she finds her  
femininity "wonderfully, divinely fulfilling,"  
and that any woman who doesn't feel  
the same way is hostile and castrating...a  
Lesbian or worse!  

A Tom is a victim, to be sure, but she is  
an collaborator. She is actively co-  
operating with the man who casts her in a  
subservient role...probably because she is  
a little weak, and more than a little an-  
xious for male approval. She pays heavy  
dues for her self-betrayal.  

In conclusion, it's an illusion to believe  
that our bosses will change just because  
we are nice. The way that Pam frowns on  

the most is the one that we find to be the  
most effective—the first half of “2,” “have  
a little talk with the boss." This is the  
best way to deal with the situation. Let  
our bosses know that we are human. When  
they realize that they don't have to be  
Supermale images, then they will also know  
that they don't need any longer to  
surround themselves with the false images  
of femininity which they have used for so  
many years. They will discover that they  
are human, too—and not "almost human,"  

as Pam says.  

--Sara Bullit and friends

Minnesota  
Political  

Women’s  

Caucus  

Betty Friedan Incites Near Riot  
At Women’s Political Convention  

When I attended the Minne-  
sota Women's Political Cau-  
cus in January, I had no in-  
dication that what I saw hap-  
pen would happen. I knew  
women from Gay House would  
be there to demonstrate  
against Betty Friedan, the  
guest speaker, but I had no  
idea the incident would be  
so dramatic or affect me so  
directly. I had no idea of  
what they would do.  

During the lunch break I  
talked briefly with the gay  
women and found that they  
had not decided what they  
would do. In fact, most  
were scared and they had not  
really thought of breaking  
up Friedan's speech. They  
had not brought any signs  
with them. Several had even  

registered for the confer-  
ence, paying the fee, so  

they could present a resolu-  
tion during the resolutions  
section of the conference  
calling for equal treatment  
of gay women. Yet, the fact  
was that they, as a group,  
had come to the conference  
to demonstrate against Friedan.  
They had decided to do  
so because Friedan, one of  
the so-called leaders of the  
women's rights movement, has  
made several remarks in the  
past calling gay women  
"sick," “the lavender her-  
ring," and the "disrupters"  
of the women's rights move-  
ment. She has said there is  
no place in the women's  
rights movement for gay wo-  
men.  

When Friedan's speech be-  
gan, she talked about how  
nice it was to be in Minne-  
sota where the Women's Poli-  
tical Caucus was represented  
by a wide variety of women--  
all ages, classes, and races.  
This was true to a certain  
extent--there were 10 to 12  
black women in the Caucus,  
there were some older women,  
and there were middle class  
women. But there were few,  
if any, American Indian wo-  
men, Chicana women, or Asian-  
American women. There were  
very few poor women there.  
Nor were there many young wo-  
men from radical political or  
independent political per  

spectives because they had  

walked out of the first poli-  

tical caucus session in Dec-  
ember when the Caucus voted  
to permit men as members.  
Friedan then went on to  
list the accomplishments of  
the women's movement in the  
past 10 years and the one  
item she forgot to mention  
was the recognition of gay  
women's rights. It was at  
this point that one of the  
women sitting with the gay  
group yelled out, "What a-  
bout gay women?" Not every-  
one heard her because there  
was some other noise in the  
auditorium at the time. It  
appeared that Friedan heard  
her, but after stopping mo-  
mentarily, went on for ano-  
ther couple of sentences.  
Then the gay woman shouted  
out again, "Why do you dis-  
criminate against gay women?"  
And this time she was heard  
in the entire audience;  
it had been quiet and there  
was an audible gasp which  
swept the audience. It was  
also obvious that Friedan  
was waiting for another out-  

burst and she was ready with  
her reply. She immediately  
raised the level of her  
voice and shouted out that  
she would not be interrupted,  
that her first amendment  
right to speak would not be  
disrupted. The audience wailed  
in an uproar. Another woman  
way in back, started yelling  
down, "Let her speak, let her  
speak." I did not know whe-  
ther she was referring to the  
gay woman or to Friedan.  
There was additional commo-  
tion as two or more of the  
woman guides (ushers) came  
down the aisles, ostensibly  
to remove the agitators.  

All during this time Friedan  
kept talking from the plat-—  
form and she was, in a sense,  
shouting down the demonstra-  
tors. It was at this point  
that I became extremely emo-  
tional, because to me there  
seemed to be a direct threat  
to the lives and safety of  
those women who had first  
raised the question, "And  
what about gay women?"  

It was just pure emotion and  

I was shaking with fear and  

anger. And I know other gay  
women in the audience were  
reacting this way, too.  
Friedan was appealing to the  
anti-demonstration and sexist  
interests of the audience--  
she knew precisely what she  
was doing. Some time ago,  
some national politician had  
said that the way to deal  
with disrupters when giving  
a speech is to shout back at  
them, "You have no right to  
disrupt my right to speak."  
And Friedan definitely ap-  
pealed to this argument  
among the women present.  
But she also appealed to  
their sexist fears of gay wo-  
men, comparing gay women to  
thugs, disrupters of the wo-  
men's movement, fascists, and  
demagogues. When the ushers  
came down the aisle, I fully  
believed that whatever Friedan  
said the audience would  
have done, because it was on  
the verge of becoming a mob  
and they clapped and cheered  
what she said. Lost in the  
emotionalism was the gay wo-  
men's legitimate right to de-  
mand of Friedan just what she  
intended to do about her own  
oppression of other women.  

It was at this point, when  
I was really afraid for the  
safety of the women involved,  
that Wanda Beale, chairman  
of the MWPC, came walking  
up the aisle, out towards the  

back of the auditorium, with  

her arm around the shoulders  
of the gay woman who had  
shouted out the question.  

By this time the audience  
had quieted down somewhat  
and some shouts of "Oh no,  
they're taking them out"—  
almost in disgust, as if  
this was a childish way to  
deal with the situation—  
were heard. And then in a  
moment of absolute silence  
the women in back who had  
been shouting all this time,  
"Let her speak, let her  
speak," said, “Why don't you  
let this woman speak in this  
so-called free American so-  
ciety?" And whether it was  
this, or something else, I  
don't know, but Wanda Beale  

(continued on page 13)

13

a ddddiiiia

N

N

(fd

N
N

that purpose.
For example:

the caucus.

SMLLLSL SLT hid ibbididildddddddibd ditt itddiititidiltd sd

VL

Friedan

(continued from page 12)

turned around and took the
woman back to her seat.
There were a few more min-
utes of conversation, and
then Wanda Beale went up on
to the stage, put her arm
around Betty Friedan, stopped
her speech, and said that
the women who had interrupt-
ed the speech could ask
their questions during the
question and answer session
which would follow the

Speech, and that also, they
could make a statement as to
why they had disrupted the
speech when Betty Friedan
was done.

The audience returned to
normal. But it was another
20 minutes before I heard
another word Friedan said.
By the time I picked up on
what she was saying, she was

ringing again.
During the question and an-
swer session, it was obvious
Friedan was waiting for the
gay women to ask their ques-
tion again. But she never
got a chance to attack them,
because another woman, who
was not with the gay group,
asked the same question
ahead of them by referring
to direct quotes Friedan had
made in an earlier speech.
Friedan could not answer the
question and after talking
around the subject for a few
minutes, concluded by saying,
“When I have my heterosexual
rights, then you can have
your homosexual rights." 
By this time I was so angry
that I could not say any-
thing. I wanted to scream
out, I wanted someone to re-
ply to Friedan but no one
did, that "You already have
your heterosexual rights--or
"privileges' as a friend of
mine said. No one hassles
you about your sexual life,
or passes laws making it il-
legal for you to engage in

an absolutely valid objective, then I think
that other tactics would have better served

1. taking part in the formation of

2. coming to steering committee
meetings or rapping informally with
members, saying, "Is there a place
for us here?" or "Are you willing to
speak to gay women's concerns?"

3. on Saturday, the 25th: running
candidates for office, asking for

a place on the program beforehand,
asking questions (however pointed)
of Ms. Friedan after she had fin-

using the term “lavender her- .

LLL Lhd hdd LLM dddddddddddaddddhdiddldddddddiddidiiididiidiiidiiidiidiiidiiliuiiiiddiiilidillliiiiiiiiiiidéiiidiiatiTDDEEZEZEZE

Re: The Disruption at the Jan. 25 MWPC

I disagreed with the action on tactical ished,
grounds. If the objective was to bring to
the attention of the women assembled the
special oppression of gay women and to en-
list their aid in combatting it (which is

men's rights.

sexual activities, or dis-
criminates against you in
finding jobs because of your
personal life."

Friedan did not stay around
to hear the statement by the
gay woman. Wanda Beale came
up to the podium to explain
that she had promised the
gay woman time for a brief
statement, and that now was
the time it would be given.
Someone in the audience
shouted out, "Why does the
majority always have to give
in to the minority?" but she
was shouted down by the rest
of the audience to hear what
the gay woman had to say.

I had expected to hear
someone ranting and raving,
after hearing rumors about
Gay House (in that it was
male-dominated and male poli-
tics tend to be loud and
haranguing) and after be-
lieving in my own stereo-
types about politically ac-
tive gay people. But it
wasn't. Instead it was a
short, quiet speech which
registered forcefully with
the audience and which ended
with the woman saying she
would not "accept anything
less than being accepted ful-
ly as a human being and
fully as a woman." She was
applauded. It is interesting
to note in contrast that
when Betty Friedan was first
introduced, she received a
standing ovation by most of
the women present in the
audience, but she did not re-
ceive a standing ovation
when she concluded her
speech.

A break followed during
which I talked with a couple
of different women. One,
who is gay, said she too had
been shaking with fear and
had gone up to a woman whom
she had considered a friend,
seeking support at what was
going on, and backed away in

shock as the woman turned to
her and said, "I really

presenting resolutions, pass-
ing out literature, etc. etc.

After checking with many women I know that

these things were not done. If they had

been done, incidentally, and gay women had

I think they would have had

a perfect right to disrupt the proceedings

and to accuse the women there of hypocrisy.

But they weren't.

The conclusion I draw then is that the
whole incident was a deliberate attempt to
embarrass Betty Friedan rather than a serious
effort to raise the consciousness of wo-
men concerning the double oppression of
their gay sisters. Ms. Friedan stands
accused of not being an advocate of gay wo-
O.K. let's say for the sake
of argument that the accusation is correct.
Was the action the best way to help gay wo-

been rebuffed,

(continued on page 15)

women—which also passed.

Mdddddblddiddidiiiiidiiddéddicdddddididddidddddddididiiidadiiiidiiiiiuiica

idduiddbdddddddididiaiiiiiiiiiiliiiiieluddcidiiidiiscc:ddiiiiiiiiiiiiii——EDEEDL

admire Friedan; look what
she's done to those disrup-
ters. Another woman, whom I
knew, but not very well,
stopped me in the hallway
and said, "I can't believe...
that Friedan. She's fascist,
she's absolutely a fascist."

I simply did not expect to
hear this from this woman.

Yet there were other women
there who did not see any-
thing out of the ordinary or
who fully supported Friedan's
right to speak, what Friedan
said, and the way she said
it.

The rest of the Political
Caucus ended much better
than I thought. I had at-
tended the first Caucus and
did not think the set of
resolutions would be passed
as they were because they
are fairly radical. But
they were. The only real
arguments came over the reso-
lution to "repeal all laws
dealing with women's repro-
ductive and sexual lives."
It was asked if this meant
prostitution, homosexuality,
and abortion and the answer
was yes. The anti-abortion
women, who constituted a
sizable minority at the Cau-
cus, fought to eliminate the
section on abortion by sub-
stituting another motion for
it. This failed and so
strong was the feeling that
we had discussed this issue
and the issue of women's
sexual lives enough, that a
vote was called for and the
resolution passed, as it
stood, by a 3 to 1 margin.
There were no other real de-
bates on the other resolu-
tions and the anti-abortion
women managed to introduce
another resolution--calling
for increased medical care
for children and pregnant

Sun., Feb. 20, 2:30 p.m.
DFL Women's Caucus Rally--

Bella Abzug, speaker. Watch
your newspaper for location.

14

Don’t Be Intimidated Feb. 22

Warnings and Strategy for Political Caucus

By Betty Hawthorne

Introduction

Precinct caucuses are the grass-roots of
politics. It's really some of your neigh-
bors getting together. The atmosphere
should not be looking for trouble. But we
have included some of the problems you might
find. Be as friendly as possible. You will
be working with these people in the future.

In planning the best thing to do in a pol-
itical caucus, two main streams of thought
always crop up.

One believes that the primary goal is to
win every position with a slate of 'good'
candidates. The other believes that the
goal is to affect the program (platform) and
that candidates are incidental to this ef-
fort;

Mine is the second position, which, as it
happens, is also generally a minority view-
point. However, both factions can, and
should, work together to achieve the common
goal of changing intolerable conditions.

How to achieve changes within the caucus

First, and obvious. Learn the rules,
Robert's. Leaflets with a summary of the
most used 'motions,' their meaning, and
their order of importance are available.
Take one with you. It's very useful when
you get excited or forget.

You should know the rules, not only to be
able to use them, but to be able to under-
stand what other people are using them for.
But, remember, the rules are not as impor-
tant as what you have to say. They're just
an aid. Speak up, and don't be afraid of
breaking the rules.

Second. Know the party structure. In the
DFL, only the caucuses may conduct official
Party business. You will be attending a
precinct caucus, the smallest political unit.

However, unofficial Party organizations
also exist. (These are now Legislative Dis-
trict organizations.) People who belong to
them may try to intimidate you by implying
that your opinions are not really as valu-
able as those of people who regularly par-
ticipate in the District organizations.

Whether they like the name or not, this
behavior is "machine-politicking." Fight it.

Third (or first). Prepare your program
(or slate). Have it written out--legibly--
to distribute. If people can read it, it
will help them to understand it, and to be
able to discuss it with you. (Few caucuses
will exceed 30 people.)

Strategy

1) Plan ahead. Have as many people pre-
pared in advance as possible; then, when you
get to the caucus, you can all talk it up.

2) The caucus. The first order of busi-
ness should be the Rules. The most impor-
tant Rule for both 'platform' and 'slate'
people is a Rule that requires candidates to
1) state their positions and 2) answer ques-
tions from the rest of the caucus. This will
not be a Rule in the written list given to
you. Amend the Rules to include it. (See
point #5.)

3) The second order of business will be the
election of caucus officers and the nomina-
tion of precinct delegates. Caucus officers
are merely used to expedite business; don't
worry about them unless you are going to be
super-organized before the caucus. Precinct
delegates are the people who will determine
all party policy above the precinct level.
This is a vital position.

4) Voting. There is a new voting tech-
nique in the DFL this year. Probably a lot
of time will be spent on explaining this new
procedure. Try to understand it. But, the
effect of the explaining will be to use up
time which should be spent on Resolutions
(which amount to Party policy). Be adamant
on your right to a lot of time for Resolu-
tions.

5) Candidates. Probably candidates will
just run. Even if they do give little
speeches they will be really innocuous.
Question them thoroughly on where they stand
on your program. Put your questions in the
form of specific statements, which they must
answer with a straight “yes" or "no." Keep
pushing when you get a wishy-washy answer.

6) Preliminaries at the Caucus. If your
caucus does not launch immediately into busi-
ness, mill around. Talk up your program.
TALK TO STRANGERS, ESPECIALLY SISTERS. Get
a little support going before the meeting.
Find out who has slates and what kind of
conditions you can work with. Support each
other.

Remember

A good discussion is probably the most
valuable and most rewarding part of a caucus.
This is the only chance they have to seri-
ously discuss politics and to learn.

(reprinted from December 1971 off our backs)

and of course some control of the potentially
powerful force of a feminist voting bloc.
She was partially deflected from her goal
by Congresswoman Bella Abzug and others who
feared Friedan would sell out on issues in
order to suck in a wider range of women.
Friedan was being quoted everywhere as seeing
herself “understanding the suburban housewife
in the Midwest." This past humid July with
everybody privately claiming to be mother,
a birth rite was held for the Caucus at the
Statler Hilton here in Washington, D.C.
There were 300 women there from 26 states,
including two of us from off our backs. We
went wanting to believe in something besides
air conditioning. After hassling over the
$20 they wanted to collect from us as press
and the sheet we had to sign agreeing to res-

(continued on page 15)

itorials

Once upon a time, women were told, among  
other things:

1) You are stupid, not to be trusted with  
anything more complex or important than the  
nurturing and socializing of future adults.

2) You are unhappy because you are selfish,  
not giving yourself completely to the needs  
of your master/husband and children.

3) You are depressed because you are neur-  
otic, not well adjusted -- go to a psychia-  
trist!

4) You are a woman and must act as women  
are supposed to act if you hope for anything  
from life.

The conclusion is obvious -- women could  
not talk of their problems to each other. To  
do so would be to admit being selfish, neur-  
otic and much more that wasn't quite compli-  
mentary. (It's the old "divide and conquer"  
game.)

Then one day, doubt began to creep into the  
minds of women. They began to talk to one  
another about their unhappiness. They broke  
that unwritten law -- loyalty to their man --  
and began to speak of little things about him  
which they disliked. Some even managed to  
share dissatisfaction with sex! -- although  
of course they felt terribly guilty about  
exposing their private life so completely.  
They shared broken dreams of being doctors,  
auto mechanics, airline pilots.

And the guilt of sharing disappeared when  
they discovered others felt the same, and a  
terrible anger replaced it -- this was not  
a private problem but a political issue, to  
be solved by group political action. At our  

Caucus (continued from page 14)

strict our coverage to the speeches given that  
morning, we were beyond conversion. Paula  
Page of the National Student Association gave  
a terrific speech. Congresswoman Bella Abzug  
wasn't bad and everyone else was. Lunch was  
not included in the $10 conference fee.

An additional $16 got you lunch in a Hilton  
tea room within belching distance of the  
celebrities. We ate the turkey special around  
the corner at a cafeteria with other bemused  
conference participants who were wishing  
they'd stayed in their hometowns and gone  
fishing.

Sometime after that weekend I got a letter  
on California Senator Mervyn Dymally's station-  
ery from one Mari Goldman saying, "...it was a  
pleasure to meet you at the recent National  
Women's Political Caucus in Washington, albeit  
briefly." Then there was some ladylike jive  
about the Caucus, ending in "...all the parties  
will listen to us next year and we shall elect  
many more women to political office." She  
signs this Mari. My Aunt Doris would say  
she had beautiful handwriting. Underneath her  
signature is her full name in capital letters  
and underneath that her title -- Executive  
Assistant. Last on the page are the initials  
Imc, her secretary maybe or Dymally's or maybe  
a Kelly Girl brought in to type letters to all  
300 of those other women Goldman didn't meet.

Another letter almost as wonderful as  
Mari Goldman's arrived at the job office solic-  
iting support of Linda Jenness' campaign  
for President of the United States as the  
candidate of the Socialist Workers Party.

Her argument for herself was pretty dull.

The SWP was neither Republican nor Democratic  
and therefore not responsible for all the  

evils in America as were those others. She  
ended with a terrific pitch for unity. As  

the Dems are not at all democratic one doubted  
if the SWP was so socialist or worker. Even  
Richard Nixon was going to "bring us together."  
In American politics consensus has always  
meant somebody got sold out.

I wish I'd get on somebody's mailing list  
who wants to make the nation safe for social  
deviants.

BY NANCY WHISKEY

Oppression is oppression is oppression.

At the present stage, we have the Minnesota Women's  
Political Caucus, a group designed for women  
to deal collectively with their oppression.  
And we have speakers like Betty Friedan, who  
applaud the coming out of women into the  
political arena.

And yet we are far from free, for we have  
been told other things:

1) You are a woman, and you will find sex-  
ual fulfillment only with men.

2) You are depressed because you are neur-  
otic, not well adjusted -- go to a psychia-  
trist!

3) You are a woman and must act as women  
are supposed to act if you hope for anything  
from life.

Same conclusion -- women could not talk to  
each other. In fact, they could not even  
talk to themselves -- they could not admit  
how much they loved the women they loved, or  
how much they didn't love the men they loved.  
(A friend of mine told me recently that she  
could never be a lesbian because she really  
likes men, and five minutes later, on a dif-  
ferent subject, confided that she had never  
enjoyed sex, that she just wasn't sensual!)

Then one day, doubt. Talk. Guilt. Shar-  
ing. The height of disloyalty, to prefer  
women to men sexually, as well as emotional-  
ly.

And the guilt of sharing, and the guilt of  
being different, disappeared when they dis-  
covered others felt the same -- this was not  
a private problem but a political issue, to  
be solved by group political action.

Betty Friedan should applaud, not shout  
down, the coming out of gay women into the  
political arena. When confronted by gay  
women, she should welcome the chance to ex-  
pose their oppression. Does she hold a  
stage to speak to the concerns of the people,  
or does she hold it for her own ego gratifi-  
cation?

Betty Friedan refused to speak to the con-  
cerns of gay women. Therefore, I can only  
conclude that she does not represent freedom  
from oppression for women, but represents  
only herself, her own ego. She is my oppres-  
sor. To support her is to support her ego,  
not the liberation of women. To support my  
oppressor is to be my oppressor.

Re: The Disruption  
(continued from page 13)

men? Feminists? Or the MWPC?

No. What it did do was give the news  
media an excuse to dump on the feminist move-  
ment, an invitation they were delighted to  
accept. Also, a lot of women present were  
antagonized by the disruption. One offered  
a kind of resolution to censure the disrup-  
ters later saying that her right to hear the  
speaker had been abridged. And it had.

Incidentally, whatever Ms. Friedan's per-  
sonal attitude, the NOW National Conference  
in Los Angeles held in September 1971 passed  
a very long and complete series of resolu-  
tions speaking to every aspect of the gay  
women's concerns. See the NOW Acts, Fall  
Ey ele.

Betty Friedan was in town for a weekend.  
The Caucus and its members are here to stay.  
Can't we as women (all of us) get together  
and explore our problems in effective and  

productive ways? BY SUE FROM

Some Comments About the History of Women

BY TORTOISE  
(a woman in the Twin Cities)

I would like to reply to the  
article Helen Victry wrote in  
the Nov. newspaper edition of  
"Gold Flower." Also, to ex-  
press some of the things I've  
been thinking about in terms  
of the history of women and al-  
so the history of the women's  
movement. To take one at a  
time:

I was overjoyed at reading of  
the article by Helen Victry  
where she told about the great  
civilization of Sumer, and also  
told about the queen Enheduanna.  
For those who did not see  
the article, Helen Victry told  
about the high status of women  
in Sumer where "She could hold  
property, engage in business,  
and qualify as a witness." Wo-  
men could also hold such posi-  
tions as "scribe, reciter, la-  
ment-singer, storyteller, and  
ambassador." Enheduanna wrote  
a poem where her patron deity  
is rejected. Her deity is the  
goddess, Inanna, patroness of  
love and fertility. Enheduanna  
writes:

‘Its woman no longer speaks  
of love with her husband.

At night they no longer have  
intercourse,

She no longer reveals to him  
her inmost treasures.'

The whole of the comments in  
the article led me to postulate  
that Sumer was a civilization  
where women did enjoy equality  
in employment if there was any  
such thing as employment. It  
is possible that the notions of  
‘equality' did not even present  
themselves, as ‘equality' in  
itself postulates that there  
has been some sort of disagree-  
ment as to the worth and getting-alongness of one division  
of human beings as compared  
with another. At any rate,  
the mobility of women in the  
outer world of political and  
social affairs was a fact in  
Sumer if women were ambassa-  
dors and scribes.

PSYCHOLOGICAL MUTILATION

Enheduanna's poem led me to  
think that women in Sumer oc-  
cupied a relatively high posi-  
tion personally and sexually  
in their society. Compared  
to the American value system,  
in which the disappointment  
and mutilation of the female  
psyche and female sexuality is  
“an everyday affair," Sumerians  
regarded female psychological  
mutilation as a catastrophe.  
(I am postulating that the  
whole of society in general  
regarded female psychological  
mutilation as a catastrophe  
because the queen wrote some-  
thing saying such, and because  
of the regarding of the queen  
as an official spokesperson  
of the culture.) I also think  
that the Sumerians put a much  
higher value on human rela-  
tions and feelings in general,  
as deduced from this poem.

COMPARISON

If abandonment of the deity,  
in terms of our culture the  
equivalent of going to hell,  
rejecting God, being cast into  
limbo, was for the Sumerians  
the corresponding event of the  
woman no longer having inter-  
course with her husband and no  
longer revealing her feelings  
to him, then this meant that  
the underlying values of Sumer  
as sanctioned by their reli-  
gion were based on feeling and  
sexuality between people. It  
also meant that women were in  
a high enough position to have  
the option to reject a man.  
Elsewhere in her article,  
Helen Victry states that it  
was relatively easy for a man  
to obtain a divorce and also  
that if she had no children,  
he could take a second wife.  
Thus, it seems that while wo-  
men enjoyed a high level of  
respect and social position in  
Sumerian society, this fact  
did not endanger the male's  
freedom or social mobility. I  
tend to think that Sumer was a  
female-centered society. Fe-  
male-centered is the opposite  
of male-dominated. There have  
been cultures where females  
did dominate, but the majority  
of matriarchal cultures have  
been female-centered -- that is  
centering around the relation  
of mother to child, and thusly  
or, consequently, have been  
more tolerant of difference,  
more materialist, had horizon-  
tal structures rather than ver-  
tical, been slower moving and  
more cooperative versus com-  
petitive (as in male-dominated  
cultures) and more subject to  
gradual takeover versus war  
(the method of takeover and  
conquering in male cultures).

FEMALE CULTURE

I read the book called "The  
Necessity of Art" by Fischer  
in which he states that in fe-  
male cultures and societies  
there was a basic unity with  
the animal world. The reading  
that I've done on female  
history widely supports this  
view -- female cultures had ani-  
mal symbols and animistic re-  
ligions -- evidenced in female  
cultures in Africa, North and  
South America, Tibet, Ancient  
Egypt, Ireland, and the Scan-  
dinavian countries. These  
societies generally had reli-  
gions focusing around animals,  
the earth, etc., with the hu-  
man being in the center with  
kind of a radius outward, into  
the seasons, the forest, and  
such. Fischer says that when  
the male hunting of animals  
came along there was a basic  
guilt, fear, and irrationality  
of feelings regarding the fe-  
male that developed among men.

In killing the animal, mak-  
ing the animal bleed, the man  
connected it to the bleeding  
woman. In killing the animal,  
he was killing the woman. In  
many tribes it was reported  
that the hunter should avoid  
the glance of the dying animal  
as the glance was a reproach  
from the animal world. That  
is, the man knew he was doing  
something wrong.

MARXISM & WOMEN

Other things occur to me  
while I am writing this arti-  
cle -- which connect with some  
of the basic premises that I  
am trying to state. The im-  
pact of the Fischer book to me  
was that women are the first  
Marxists. Marxism to me means  
essentially two things: that  
outer material circumstances  
are primary and to be heavily  
considered in judging and  
assessing any social or for  
that matter, any individual  
situation. People are not  
static entities to be considered  
within themselves, but are  
a relation and process con-  
stantly changing in relation to  
outside factors, other people,  
and the social and economic  
environment. The second maxim  
of Marxism, or included within  
the first definition, is the  
ism.

Dialectics, in my notion of  
thinking, just means that  
things are in a constant  
process of change. The first  
notion of creation or being is  
movement, change, versus  
entropy which means things come  
to a static, immoveable end.

I disagree with Marx in that  
I interpret his notion of so-  
cial struggle to mean violent  
class war, and that class war  
is necessary to bring about  
progress. I think that is  
rather a gross oversimplifica-  
tion of dialectics -- synthesis,  
collision or friction, new  
synthesis. I rather see dia-  
lectics in the artistic sense  
in the context of change and  
process -- what the psychologists  
call self-actualization and the  
existentialists call 'Becoming.'  
They are all connected.

Back to the contention that  
women are the first Marxists.  
Women, due to the connection  
with the animal world and with  
children, were able to be more  
level-headed as far as human  
feelings and developing a ma-  
terialist notion of life.  
Hence, the stigma, used to our  

(continued on page 18)

BY HELEN VICTRY

Hatshepsut, the Pacifist Pharaoh

(Continuing to investigate
individual women of the past
who left autobiographical
records.)

Egypt had several female
rulers during its history,
beginning in the first dy-
nasty with Nit-hotep, and
ending with Egypt's last
Pharaoh, Cleopatra. The
pacifist Hatshepsut is in-
teresting because her career
indicates women may some-
times run the same "machin-
ery" as men do, with differ-
ent results. Further inves-
tigation may tell how much
Hatshepsut's career was due
to female support. My major
source has been Evelyn
Wells' Hatshepsut (Doubleday
& Co., Garden City, NY., at
Mpls. Public and U. of Minn.
libraries). Wells minimizes
the existence of other fe-
male Pharaohs, but is other-
wise accurate and readable.
Books by Alan Gardiner and
E.W. Budge have also been
used.

One cannot understand Hat-
shepsut outside of her con-
text, and especially the
story of her family. Her
dynasty was unusually war-
like, getting its start in
a war of national libera-
tion against the Hyksos in-
vaders. In this rebellion
Hatshepsut's female ancest-
ors played an important
part.

Tetisheri was the first
of these strong women. She
was not fully royal by des-
cent, and was Queen of a
puppet Pharaoh set up by the
Hyksos. Her children
Sekenre and Ahotep I began
the rebellion against the
Hyksos. (At least in this
dynasty, the simplest in-
terpretation of royal suc-
cession is that the oldest
daughter of the Queen was
the heiress; her husband
became Pharaoh.)

Pharaoh Sekenre evidently
died in battle (his mummy
has five ugly-looking head
wounds.) Ahotep I and her
mother Tetisheri kept the
rebellion going. Ahotep's
son Kamose died after a
losing battle. Then another
son, Amose (married to the
heiress Amose-Nefertari)
succeeded in driving out the
Hyksos. He set up garrisons

in Palestine as a first line

of defense against any fu-
ture invaders. Wells
writes: "Amose recorded his
deep love for the women of
his family...gave them au-

thoritative powers that
equaled his own." (p 35)

Ahotep I was a remarkable
woman who may have played a
very active role as rebel
leader. Her son Amose wrote
of her: "...one who cares
for Egypt...who has looked
after her (Egypt's) soldiers;
she has guarded her; she has
brought back her fugitives
and called together her de-
serters; she has pacified
Upper Egypt and expelled her
rebels." (Quoted in Wells,

p. 36)

Ahotep's daughter Amose-
Nefertari (married Amose the
liberator) was taller than
her husband, and it is re-
corded that she helped in all
important state acts. Her
daughter was Ahotep II, who
married her full brother
Amonhotep I. Amonhotep con-
tinued the trend toward for-
eign wars by annexing Kush
(south of Egypt). Ahotep II
and Amonhotep were Hatshep-
sut's grandparents.

The daughter of Ahotep II
was Queen Amose who married
her half-brother, Thothmes I.
Their daughter Hatshepsut was
born sometime before 1500 BC.
The name Hatshepsut means
"Chieftainess of Noble Wo-
men."

As a child, Hatshepsut
dressed in male clothing.
One may only speculate why,
but remember Thothmes' only
claim to the throne was
through Amose the Queen. A
warrior-king, he was the
first to lead campaigns
through much of a long reign.
While he was fighting for-
eign wars, Amose was probab-
ly the effective ruler of
the country. Wells implies
Hatshepsut was a tomboy be-
cause she was her father's
favorite. Might it have
been that her mother, the
gentle Amose, prepared her
for a more important role?
Did Amose, did Egyptian wo-
men in general, oppose the
new warfare and the begin-
nings of empire? Did they
hope to install Hatshepsut
as Pharaoh to return Egypt
to its old peace-loving
ways?

Wells asks: "Thothmes I...

‘was one of the greatest of

Egypt's line of warrior
kings. How was it that his
daughter Hatshepsut was to
become her country's out-
standing protagonist of
peace?" (p 63)

Some years before he died,

Thothmes I named Hatshepsut
Crown Prince, Pharaoh-to-be.

Shortly after her mother
Amose died, he made Hat-
shepsut co-ruler. Wells
treats these as daring, in-
novative actions. I don't
think we can read our male-
dominated society into an-
cient Egypt. Egypt had had
female Pharaohs, and would
have them again. Egyptian
women were at least as free
as we are. One record says
that should a male acquire
any property, he must im-
mediately turn it over to
his wife. What is more,
Egyptian daughters, not
sons, were required to sup-
port aged parents.

After her father died,
Hatshepsut first ruled a-
lone, then chose her half-
brother Thothmes II as hus-
band. He played a subser-
vient role in the state,
paid a good deal of atten-
tion to his appearance, and
was the father of Hatshep-
sut's two daughters.

Hatshepsut evidently con-
tinued to direct the coun-
try. At this time she be-
gan many building projects,
including the great temple
at Deir el-Bahari, whose
pillars still rise, tier on
tier, against the cliff.
Egyptian buildings were not
built with slave labor, but
by workmen (professionals)
and by laborers recruited
to work while the fields
were flooded.

Sennemut, her architect,
was born poor. Egypt was a
class society, but education
was available to all, and
promotion was on a merit ba-
sis, so there was social mo-
bility. Hatshepsut records
her love for Sennemut, but
not clearly enough for us to
say they were lovers.

Thothmes II died, but not
before fathering a son,
Thothmes III, born to a
secondary wife. For two
years Hatshepsut ruled as
regent of her stepson,
Thothmes III, who had been
married to her daughter.

Then Hatshepsut declared
the god Amon had told her to
take the crown as Pharaoh.
She continued to wear male
clothing, adding the false
golden beard that symbolized
kingship.

To celebrate her Sed-
festival, at which the magi-
cal power of Pharaoh was re-
newed, she erected two great
obelisks, each nearly 100
feet high and weighing over

(continued on page 18)

18

Hatshepsut

{continued from page 17}

80,000 pounds. On these she
proclaimed her kingship:
Hatshepsut, "more beautiful
than anything." Hatshepsut
did not, in my opinion,
"want to be" male." She kept
her name - Chieftainess of
Noble Women - though many

Her inscriptions often mix
gender from one line to the
next. Egypt was conserva-
tive to the bone; Pharaoh
was “always" referred to in
male gender; when Hatshepsut
was Pharaoh, she referred to
herself as all Pharaohs did.

Throughout Egypt she re-
stored temples with their
schools and hospitals. Hers
was an era of peace and
prosperity. No military ex-
peditions were made; cara-
vans and ships came from

Nubia, Crete, Asia Minor.
Consider the diplomatic
skill which changed those
enemies into friends:

She masterminded a voyage
to Punt (Somaliland) the
source of myrrh. In Hat-
shepsut's time its location
had been forgotten, so the
voyage was a “search for
Eldorado." Ships were built
on the Red Sea, and were
gone for two years on a
peaceful trading expedition.

The voyage must have captured
the attention of the en-
tire nation.

I cannot but see a plan to
turn away from militarism --
building projects to main-
tain national pride; peace
and trade to ensure prosper-
ity; schools and hospitals
for future growth; the voy-
age to Punt to show the ex-
citing side of peace.
Hatshepsut's chief problem

He had matured into a war-
rior-king, and she tried to
keep him in the background.
After the voyage to Punt,
Thothmes made his move. He
opened army enlistment and
promised foreign wars and
generous booty. Men flocked
in. He formed an elite
corps under his direct com-
mand -- "the Braves of the
King." We do not know how
Hatshepsut fought him.
Many years earlier she had
named her daughter Crown
Prince and had the infant
portrayed wearing Pharaoh's
golden beard, indicating
plans for a female succes-
sor. We know Hatshepsut
relied on the people to
choose peace, for her in-
scriptions emphasize her
role as peace-keeper.
Thothmes had called on
the males, promising loot.
This coup was unanswerable.
Yet Hatshepsut held the
throne. Despite the new

Pharaohs changed their names,

was her stepson Thothmes III,

army and the dreaded Braves
of the King, she kept the
peace. One can hardly im-
agine the extent of her
political skill.

In 1468 B.C., when she
was about 32 years old, Hat-
shepsut died. We don't
know how she died, but as-
sassination is possible.
Thothmes tried to erase her
name on all monuments, thus
denying her eternal life.
Her tomb is empty and muti-
lated.

Within three months of
her death, Thothmes marched
into Palestine, beginning a
real empire. Wells says,
"For the next thirty-four
years Thothmes kept the
country in a constant state
of war. Two generations of
young male Egyptians en-
riched their families with
booty won in his battles,
and other young men died."

We know, as yet, only the
outline of Hatshepsut's
reign. Let her sum up her
hopes for Egypt (recorded
when the obelisks were
raised): "rejoicing...sail-
ing downstream in gladness
of heart, all rejoicing, in
jubilee,...in peace..."

Comments on History

(continued from page 16)

disadvantage, that we are
more ‘practical' --they say,
able to do more mundane
chores (follow that line of
logic). The connection with
the animal world and respect
for animals and a general
sense of union on a scale of
equality (a horizontal
scale--Fischer talks about
cultures where the women
nursed homeless animals,
dogs, wolves, etc.), and the
necessary connection with
children leading to a con-
nection and a concern with
other people, connoted in my
mind a recognition with the
world at large and a consid-
eration for people as inter-
acting and subject to envir-
onment and change in the en-
vironment.

One of the things Helen
Victory's article also led

me to think about was that
not only were women respon-

sible for and chief figures
in ancient ('primitive,'
like American Indian) cul-

tures, but were also cen-

tral and responsible for
such ancient and chief civ-
ilizations such as Helen
Victory has written about and
discussed--other parts of
her studies on women in his-
tory in which she shows that
women had a high place and
were at one time rulers in
ancient Crete.

Crete was a highly modern
civilization thousands of
years ago and even had bath-
rooms much like ours with
copper sewage-drainage sys-
tems.

MOTHERS & AMAZONS

I found out by reading
"Mothers and Amazons" by
Helen Diner that India was
at one time a female culture,
and that there is a specific
place in the Vedas where it
states that things will now
be male dominated. Survivor
artifacts of the female cul-
ture are the reverence of
the cow and the notion that
energy-spiritual power pro-
ceeding from Brahman (the im-
personal God before male and
female) is female. That is,
the first being is a female
being in the form of an en-
ergy power force. It has
come to my mind that in the
days of female culture in
India, when the culture cen-
tered around women, was when
the science of yoga came in-
to being.

I have heard that yoga was
brought into practice thou-
sands of years ago by Indian
doctors. Going along with
the ancient practice of wo-
men doing the doctoring, be-
ing the 'witches' (ouija, an
Aryan word-wise, wicca,
witch) and the fact that wo-
men had a concern for the
materialist part of people
(the body), it would follow
that it was highly plausible
that women invented the sci-
ence of yoga to prevent and
cure disease and disorders.
Yoga meditation and exercise

are now being practiced by

thousands of the young in
this country to cure both
psychological disorders and
prevent disease.

Movie

(continued from page 7)
facet in the film's inten-
tion. Even in the making of
the film experience of the
women is essential. The all
woman film production staff
lived together for three
weeks while they made the
film. Each week the staff
focused on one of the women
and in each presentation
there is an attempt to con-
vey what it is like to exper-
ience that person.

Millet is successful in at
least two of her three por-
traits. Mallory's and Robin's
presentations are very thor-
ough and convincing. In the
case of Lillian's, where
they had some trouble with
the footage, one does not get
the same feeling of a real
confrontation although her
style does come across.

Three Lives played at the
Walker in mid-January. A
lot of women may have missed
it because it was only shown
on two dates, with not much
publicity and it was expen-
sive ($2.59--but they did let
people in for $1.50 if you
complained). I'm hoping
the film will be available
again so that everyone who
wants to can see it.

Book Review

Matriarchy -- The First Society

BY NANCY LEHMANN  
(Member of Radical Feminists  
28)

the First Sex. Elizabeth  
Gould Davis. G.P. Putnam's  
Sons, New York, N.Y. 10016  
$7.95

I happened to run across  
this book when browsing in a  
downtown bookstore in Minne-  
apolis. It was so inspira-  

tional to me that I ran out,  
bought a canvas and composed  
my first painting.  

something like this:  

It looks  

t  
History  

I thought the best way to  
review the book was to tell  
the story behind the paint—  
It is a painting of  

ing.  
matriarchal legend. All of  
it is described in the first  

part of the book. Miss Davis  
goes on to trace women's her-  

story through to the present.  
It is not the truth or fal-  
sity of any of her hypotheses  
that the reader is left with  
at the end of each chapter,  
but the overall sense of  
pride and power in being fe-  
male, of knowing that nothing  
could be more natural than  
matriarchy and that the world  
now suffers because the god-  
dess was murdered and raped  
by patriarchal barbarians—  

barbarians who then system-  
atically buried every shred  
of female dignity they could  
find in attempts to keep wo-  
man from her natural state of  
superiority.  

In the beginning there was  
the great goddess; she creat-  
ed the heavens and the earth.  
It simply made sense that the  
first deity was a woman, the  
mother of creation, following  
from her biological function.  
Recent archaeology has un-  
covered numerous women cen-  
tered cities dating back as  
far as 10,000 BC and farther.  
These cities appear very ad-  
vanced technologically for  
their time. Many had elab-  
orate plumbing systems.  
Many had no protective walls  
or apparent mechanisms for  
self-defense, suggesting the  
absence of war. Homes ap-  
pear equal in size, suggest-  
ing that all people shared  
approximately equal material  
possessions. Though these  
people were aware of each  
other's existence, certain  
symbols were common:  

THE CRESCENT MOON was sacred  
to the matriarchy. As the  
mothers lived on the earth,  
in natural surroundings,  
they watched the moon and  
saw that its monthly cycle  
paralleled the menstrual  
cycle of woman. Both went  
full cycle in twenty-eight  
days. This unity between  
themselves and nature, a  
unity which they did not  
understand but which they  
held sacred, was symbolized  
by the crescent moon and the  
number twenty-eight. The  
matriarchal calendar was  
made up of thirteen months,  
each with twenty-eight days  
following the cycle of the  
moon. After the patriarchal  
wars which destroyed the  
matriarchal cities, men  
instituted a twelve-month  
year. Each month had an odd  
number of days and the rulers  
named the months after them-  
selves: July for Julius  
Caesar, August for Caesar  
Augustus and so on and so  
forth ad nauseam. Thirteen  
became an unlucky number.  

THE BULL was sacred to the  
great goddess. Bull horns  
were placed over the altar  
in the center of the home.  
Some contend that the bull  

was a phallic symbol, others  
that it was sacred because  
its horns form a perfect  
crescent.  

THE RED RAIN, an ancient  
myth, is said to have been  
the menstrual blood of the  
great goddess.  

WOMEN DEVELOPED FARMING and  
first learned to cultivate  
the soil.  

ART BEGAN when women first  
painted on the walls of  
caves. Fine drawings of red  
flowers with white centers  
forming the face of a woman  
with a wreath of flowers  
around her head have been  
found by archaeologists dig-  
ging in unrelated places.  

THE MIGHTY OAK TREE was the  
legendary home of the great  
goddess. The first chalice  
was carved from wood in the  
shape of an oak tree. Later  
King Arthur chased after the  
holy grail in the patriarch's  
attempts to co-opt matriar-  
chal legend.  

TWO CRESCENTS touching at  
both ends was a female sex  
symbol to the ancient moth-  
ers. It symbolized the  
vulva.  

TWO CRESCENTS touching at  
one end, resembling a horse  
shoe, was a good luck charm.  

THE WOMAN'S SYMBOL is said  
to have been the sacred  
beneath the full moon—  

THE DOUBLE EDGED AX was a  
tool used for many domestic  
purposes. Its shape con-  
nected the outline of four  
crescents. In addition, it  
resembles the butterfly,  
which was a symbol of immor-  
tality.  

THE EGG, for obvious reasons,  
was a fertility symbol.  

THE GOLDEN AGE has been  
sought after ever since pa-  
triarchy brought an end to  
mother rule. Centuries lat-  
er the people still remem-  
bered the "land of milk and  
honey", the land of matriar-  
chy. Milk was an obvious  
reference to mother. Honey  
referred to the natural ma-  
triarchy of bees.  

The great goddess is said to  
have appeared to the people  
in the form of a serpent.  
Coincidentally, the patriar-  
chal Satan appeared in the  
same form.  

There can be no doubt that  
patriarchy has deliberately  
suppressed the history of  
matriarchy. Thanks to  
Elizabeth Davis and other  
Feminists who are beginning  
to uncover our past, the  
age of the bull will no  
longer be forgotten.

Poetry by Natasha

Almana deals in aces of spades  
She has no Queens of hearts.  
Her whole deck turns up  
aces black  
And they're all in spades  
Magic  
You shout!  
Magic you retort!  
Oh no, Oh no you're wrong.  
You see she bought them  
that way  
Ha  
Ha  
Ha Ha  
Ha  
another joke, another joke  
but why isn't the world  
laughing. Perhaps they don't  
think it's very funny: Ha Ha Ha  
She scores:  

Louie finally  
went screwy  
When he discovered;  
that his pretty little Suzie  
found  
another  
friend at lovers leap end.  

And they executed a perfect  
swan song  

for the whole world  
together.  

Lois Amazon Lane reports  
that she:  
must be  
Super Woman.  
Because when she jumped  
that old skyscraper  
in the sky earlier today,  
of all the crazy things to happen  
(Why let me tell you)  

(before she reached  
the bottom  
she began to fly.  

Lois being no man's fool  
immediately (if not sooner) took  
appropriate action.  
She went and had S.W. tattooed  
right smack between her two breasts  
Now all she has to worry about  
is Kryptonite  
Oh ya  
Oh ya Kryptonite  
will do it to you  
every time.  

Oh ya  
Oh ya  
Kryptonite can kill. Kill  
you know  
like in  

Kill you dead.  

"that tops things off! that tops  
things off." Sharon always throws  
that phrase in  
when there's nothing else to say  
Oh  
She comes out with some:  
real homespun beauties  
like.  
“What a mess! What A Mess!  
I can’t find the store.”  
Then Sharon will say  

a,  
“Life is pretty without the smell  
of roses."  

Baby  

"We need the smell of roses  
around here. You know  

I can't think straight  

I don't know who's loonier her or me.  
It's all a matter of degree I'm told.  
Ha Ho Ha Ha Ha  

Now of all the things to be  
relative.  
He says....Parties Are.  
How confusing: Not to know  
when you're on or off.  
But all things considered  
he might be  

Right. After all  
what's in a number?  
or Ho: Ho: Ho: a tops matter  
swords words words you  
can  

lose yourself in them.  
Just like you can drown.  
Yea drown in the sea.  
Sea--a 3 letter word  
it can be blue--it can be green  
or even hum de dum  
Yes it can be very evenly all slicked over  
with oil rainbows  
having no pot of gold at their ends  
(not even a puff for the soul)  

Misha woke up one morning  
And looked in her mirror.  
Now that  
was her first mistake  
for the day.  
Because she found she lost  
her SMILE  
in her pillow--the night  
before.  
the two lips left,  
She just wore pasted on plainly red.  
plainly red!  
After all Misha,  
who would notice?  
the difference?  
Who could see the change?  

you know  
You never were the image-keeper  
anyway  
anywho.  
Well  

that's  
One smile down and  
a thousand years to go.

"Gold Flower." Gold Flower, Feb. 1972, p. [1]. Archives of Sexuality  
and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/NDFIEN165807467  
/AHSI?uU=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI.  

Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.