oct.

1973

vol. 2 no. 7

SEASON  
OF  

The  

PAWURSAY, OCTOBER 27 —— 01  

s7 SCHEDULE <= TICKETS AVAILABLE AT =<  

3-6 pm. == WORKSHOPS MINNESOTA FEMINISTS - 373-0033 — U of M  

Room 203, COFFMAN MEMORIAL UNION  
6-7:30 pm. oo SUPPER, BREAK— = -  
P: aoa x ORES NMALIN BOKSTERE — 824-5407  

W. LAKE & 6TH STREET  

Twin CITIES WOMEN'S UNION — 729-6200  
310¢— 12TH AVE. S.  

7:30 — 9 PM, «> ENTERTAINMENT —  
POETRY READING—  

9 — midnight “FAMILY OF WOMAN“  
CONCERT & DANCE  

ALL WOMEN WELCOME  

WOMEN'S COUNSELING SERVICE — 827-3819  
Room 208 — 611 W. LAKE ST.  
LESBIAN RESOURCE CENTER - 929-234—  

TO W. 22ND ST.  

———————————————=—_=_=_—  

A FESTIVAL OF,  
BY AND FOR WOMEN *  

featuring,  

“FAMILY OF WOMAN“  
LESBIAN, FEMINIST MUSICIANS  

DOWNTOWN YWCA  
COLLET AVENUE  

MINNEAPOLIS  
TICKETS — $2.00 DONATION  

MAMAS COME, TOO,  
CHILD CARE WILL BE PROVIDED  

SPONSORED BY GOLDFLOWER,  
Lesbian Resource Center, Twin Cities  
WOMEN'S UNION AND ELIZABETH BLACKWELL  
WOMEN'S HEALTH CLINIC ..-  

ALL WOMEN WELCOME

On Fighting Sex Discrimination, Or ----

A Three-Part Series

“YOU’RE NOTHING BUT A

PACK OF CARDS”

The author was, until re-
cently, employed by a Twin Cities firm. In
May 1972 she filed a sex discrimination
charge against the corporation with the Minn-
esota Department of Human Rights. Subse-
quently, she also filed a charge of race and
sex discrimination against the corporation
with the federal Equal Employment Opportuni-
ties Commission (EEOC).

The State Commissioner of Human Rights, in
January 1973, returned a decision of "no
probable cause” to assume the corporation
was discriminating against women. The auth-

PART I

"No, no:" said the Queen. "Sentence first--
verdict afterwards."

"Stuff and nonsense!" said Alice loudly.
"The idea of having the sentence first!"

"Hold your tongue:" said the Queen, turning
purple.

"I won't," said Alice.

"Off with her head!" the Queen shouted at the
top of her voice. Nobody moved.

"Who cares for you?" said Alice (she had
grown to her full size by this time).
"You're nothing but a pack of cards!"

--Alice in Wonderland, Lewis
Carroll

In the past four years, women have begun to
use the legal tools at their disposal in eff-
orts to attain jobs that pay fairly, promo-
tions they deserve and expanded educational
opportunities. Today, news of sex discrimi-
nation charges and lawsuits regularly appear
in urban newspapers. Indeed, women have won
spectacular victories against bigoted emp-
loyers--American Telephone and Telegraph,
General Mills and General Motors are three of
the most famous offenders.

But the newspaper accounts don't tell one

what to expect day-to-day from co-workers,
superiors and state functionaries after fil-
ing a sex discrimination charge. I have been
through this process; my experience is sig-
nificant because it mirrors that of so many
women. I have learned what can and cannot
be accomplished by fighting bigoted employ-
ers through a State Human Rights Department.

“Down the Rabbit Hole”

In 1971 the job market was tight. I had just
completed graduate work for a Master's Degree
in American Studies at the University of
Minnesota. I had a Bachelor's Degree in
Journalism and approximately 3 1/2 years’
professional experience (much less than most
college graduates of 31, but I had spent an
inordinate amount of time traveling about the

by Mary Hastings

and her attorney appealed that decision
to the State Appeal Board. It overturned
the Commissioner's decision and sent the
charge back for reinvestigation. The State
Department of Human Rights has been in the
"reinvestigation" process since April 1973.
The author has received no information con-
cerning this process and the State is under
no time limit. (The EEOC awaits the out-
come of the state charge before taking jur-
isdiction.)

"field" and "taking courses")

I was over-qualified for beginning journalism
positions and not at the “managerial” level.
I was in deep debt for my graduate education.
In November I accepted a position as editor
of an audio-tape program in the education de-
partment of a Twin Cities firm. I was seri-
ously underpaid, starting at $8,400 per year.
A man with the same job title and far less
education and responsibility started at
$10,000 per year and was raised, in six
months, to $11,000.

My first mistake was not negotiating for an
acceptable salary. My reasons for accepting
the low salary illustrate the confused state
I had been brought to by societal pressures
on and expectations of women. I needed money
but more pressing were my intense feelings
of failure. Most of these "failure pangs"
sprang from my male-oriented view of the
world. I had been trained, like my male
peers, to measure my worth in "impressive"
jobs, degrees and lifestyles--in a word, to
be a materialist.

Thus, I made a grave error even before I

was issued my employee I.D. (Later in my
battles with the company, the male attitude
was manifest: "Well, why did you take the
job if you didn't like the salary?" That
is, "You had a choice--take the job and
shut up or go elsewhere. It is unnatural
for women to make demands.")

continued on page 3

sex discrimination, Continued from page

Having started on an unhappy note, I found  
that my job was a source of pain from the  
first day.  

I should note factors that made this most  
recent job different from others I have  
held:  

--I had begun to take a serious  
interest in feminism: Know-  
ledge of exploitation brings  
pain.  

--I was working for a private corp-  
oration. Previously I had either  
worked for a newspaper (a pri-  
vate corporation masquerading  
as citizens' advocate) or a  
university where certain degrees  
of nonconformity are tolerated,  
even applauded.  

--I was now working in an atmosphere  
of such stifling conformity that  
nothing I'd ever read, heard of or  
had nightmares about prepared me  
for the reality of it.  

Wonderland  

For seven months, I performed my duties.  
There was a mad, Hieronymous Bosch quality  
to my days. Males high and low in the corp-  
oration were feuding for reasons I could  
not fathom. (I am neither naive nor unin-  
telligent but to this day I cannot divine  
the motivation for the excess of savage com-  
petition and hateful behavior displayed by  
these men.) I, mindful of my debts and sec-  
retly ashamed of my cowardice in not quit-  
ting the job, struggled--swimming in the  
murky waters of departmental rivalry and  
I was tagged "efficient”  
- That is, I was competent and,  
to my shame, willing to tolerate brutal rude  
ness and stupidity that made my teeth ache.  

Unfortunately, too, I could take little sol-  
ace in the work I produced. I had not ex-  
pected the job to be absorbing, but I had  
hoped to be allowed to perform as a compe-  
tent writer/editor. This was not to be.  

The program became a "political football”  
(as do all projects in such a structure)  
and after many "reviews" and constipated con-  
ferences, I would have left the shards of my  
work--a program that said little and deeply  
embarrassed me.  

“Pig and Pepper”  

After seven months, however, I was transfer-  
red to the communications department. My  
transfer was by fiat of a high executive who  
had decided she liked me. I was happy to  
comply, as the education department was un-  
dergoing a "shakeup" that resulted in an at-  
mosphere just this side of the Gaza Strip. I  
also had a choice between two male supervi-  
sors--whether I stayed or transferred--men  
who I knew were no friends of women. I  
cast the die and chose the one I felt would  
be less obnoxious.  

The communications department was a male  
bastion. I was never welcomed in any way.  
And as time passed, I was very glad for  
that. It made my course uncomplicated. In-  
itially, of course, my silent isolation was  
difficult. I had always been in an atmos-  
phere where at least 50% of my peers liked  
me. Men who work in academia or "quasi-  
creative" occupations seemed better able to  
disguise their prejudices. Or, perhaps I  
had started to view males with a cold eye  
and they reciprocated.  

The move seemed providential, despite the  
cool reception. My new supervisor left me  
entirely alone to work as I saw fit. I  
was pleased and chose to regard this free-  
dom as a permanent state. (Alas, innocence).  

continued on page  

Rules of the Game  

If you feel you have just cause to file a  
sex or race discrimination charge against  
your employer with the Minnesota State Hum-  
an Rights Department (or your state’s count-  
erpart):  

1. CONTACT AN ATTORNEY AT ONCE  
She can give you valuable  
information and advice about  
filing the charge. She can also  
accompany you to the Department.  

Tell NO ONE connected with your  
employer that you contemplate  
filing a charge. You argue  
from a position of strength if  
you are an employee in good  
standing when the charge is  
served.  

Make a careful judgment as to  
whether your employer discrim-  
inates both on the bases of  
race and sex. If this is the  
case, talk with your attorney  
about joining race and sex dis-  
crimination in your charge. One  
of the saddest aspects of minor-  
ity struggles for justice is the  
white male's cunning attempts  
to set us at each other's throats.  

Resist the impulse to confide in  
male co-workers at any time.  
There are many sensitive men, but  
my experience tells me they are  
not yet ready to be involved  
in women's liberation.  

It is now Minnesota law that the  
State Department of Human Rights  
must conclude its investigation  
of your charge within 90 days of  
your filing. (The 90-day limit  
does not include "conciliation"  
and/or appeal time, however.)

On Monday morning, I arrived at work, attended to some details and informed my supervisor I would be “out of the building" for a time. I proceeded to the Minnesota Department of Human Rights in St. Paul. I had little hope that my claim could be accepted for investigation. I was interviewed by a very intelligent young woman.

sex discrimination, continued from page 7

“The Pool of Tears”

Also, over my seven months' employment, I had discovered I could work very well with women. This statement comes from one who had always been hostile to "female subordinates", fearing association with them, and separating myself from them as much as possible. But having embraced feminism, I developed rapport with my female co-workers. Ninety-nine percent were secretaries.

(There were several other women professionals in the company, but we all had "service-oriented" jobs.) I grew to understand that I worked with a female secretary. She did not work for me; she was not my secretary.

Shortly after my transfer, I enrolled in a two-week seminar and was absent from the communications department.

Upon my return, a corporate executive gave me the greatest gift I have ever received—the opportunity to free myself forever from male standards.

The executive—for reasons still unclear to me—complained to my supervisor that I should not produce a program dealing with "technical" endeavors exclusively the province of males. My supervisor who—consciously or unconsciously—had been awaiting an opportunity to curtail my activities had a "heart-to-heart" talk with me in which he informed me it was not appropriate for a woman to take a large role in a "technical" field. He declaimed for some time, quoting Scripture and recalling the natural order of things. He concluded in a patronizing tone that I would be allowed to "coordinate" the program but would no longer play a major role in it.

During this amazing interview, I responded in a passive, non-involved manner. I had just had a job review that rated me an excellent employee. Needless to say, I was nonplused.

“The Rabbit Sends in a Little ‘Bill’

That hot May weekend I made the decision to file a sex discrimination charge against my employer. I was frightened but did not want to be humiliated further by the male who heard my nervous but factual account of my supervisor's sermon. She informed me that the case was "difficult" but the State could investigate.

Following the interview, I signed a form and dated it. Within a week or so, I would receive a copy and the company would be served with a copy by mail. The charge was addressed to the President of the corporation and my supervisor.

(I had not retained an attorney and did not plan to.) This is a grave error. Consult an attorney immediately if you feel you have just cause to file a sex discrimination charge. Because I had not consulted an attorney at the outset, I did not know that I could have filed a charge with the Federal Equal Employment Opportunities Commission at the same time I filed the state charge.

I fear that initially I viewed the State Department as a "protector". Nothing is further from the truth. This Department should be absolutely neutral in investigations—it is neither an advocate for complainant (myself) nor respondent (the company). The Minnesota Department of Human Rights is also understaffed and overworked. And I regard its male employees as a fair cross-section of male attitudes toward women.

If you need an attorney and are in the Twin Cities area, contact Women's Advocates: 227-2504 (St. Paul) for attorney referral. 

I returned to my office and proceeded for the next week and a half to work in the mode dictated by my supervisor.

Nothing changed—on the surface. My supervisor did, indeed, treat me with more kindly condescension than had been his wont. (I found I preferred the wary measuring of two weeks past.) I behaved in my usual manner. I had been a most accommodating, soft-voiced woman. I had never visibly lost my temper, although it cost me many stomach pains and tight lines at the mouth. I had never demanded what was my due, had never insisted on cooperation or timely performance of interviews, "reviews" or conferences.

One noon hour I drove home to check my mail continued on page / nn

Strength in Powerlessness

Sister Annabelle Raiche,  
Chair of the Education Depart-  
ment at the College of St.  
Catherine, St. Paul, went to  
the University of San Francis-  
co for a Symposium on Ignatian  
Spirituality July 15-31.  

July 31 she went to jail.  

It started out as a day of  
solidarity with the United  
Farm Workers for the partici-  
pants in the symposium. Ninety-  
five priests and nuns went  
to Parlier to support the UFW  
as observers. They were greeted  
by Cesar Chavez, who asked  
if they had the time and the  
commitment to join the picket  
line.  

"That's when I decided I  
would join them," Sister Anna-  
belle said, even though they  
knew they would be imprisoned  
for an indefinite period of  
time. Sixteen sisters and  
sixteen priests joined about  
300 other people to form pick-  
et lines on two nectarine  
ranches.  

The picketers formed a line  
facing a line of ranch owners.  
"You could tell they were very  
frightened men," Sister Anna-  
belle said, by the sticks,  
crowbars, and rubber hoses that  
they carried, and by the two  
unleashed dogs with them. The  
picketers carried nothing.  
They were silent, sang hymns,  
or chanted prayers. From time  
to time they spoke to the  
scabs working in the fields,  
trying to call them out. They  
persuaded four of the workers  
to leave.  

After about four hours, the  
police began arresting them.  

A policewoman began reading  
the women their charges. The  
Chicanas, experienced in be-  
ing arrested, shouted during  
the reading so they would not  
hear their charges, and would  
be illegally arrested.  

The picketers were taken to  
the Fresno County Industrial  
Farm where they were frisked,  
fingerprinted, and photographed.  
After two days of waiting,  
they were arraigned for  
"riot, rout, disorderly con-  
duct, and unlawful assembly."  

by Jan Jirak  

The UFW's lawyers pleaded “not  
guilty." They were judged not  
trustworthy to be released on  
their own recognizance. Bail  
was set at $400.  

In the prison, "we set our  
own pattern of life; no day  
ever dragged." There was al-  

ways cleaning, praying, read-  
ing, or some sort of activity  
in progress.  

Cesar Chavez  

Sister Annabelle Raiche  

had told the nuns, “Ask the  
women what their life is  
like." Sister Annabelle took  
his advice.  

There was Petra. She was 29  
years old and had seven child-  
ren. Her day started at 3 a.m.,  
when she rose to do the clean-  
ing and cooking. After break-  
fast the family went to the  
fields. When supper ended the  
long day, it was time for bed.  
Petra said, "The only time we  
have together is on Sunday af-  
ter Mass."  

The strength of the farm wor-  
kers is exemplified by a woman  
named Estafana. She is the  
mother of 8 children, the  
youngest 6 months old. She  
was feverishly ill when she  
was in jail. The Farm Workers  
doctor told her she should go  
straight to bed and stay  
there. After the doctor saw  
her, the prison officials  

brought her to their office  
and tried to convince her to  
leave the prison. (Everyone  
had agreed that, as a sign of  
unity, no one would leave the  
prison unless they all did.)  
Estafana, in spite of her ill-  
ness, in spite of her child-  
ren, withstood twenty minutes  
of persuasion and refused to  
leave without the others.  

Sister Annabelle and the  
rest of the prisoners were re-  
leased on August 13 at 12:30  
a.m. A sister from her commu-  
nity in the Los Angeles pro-  
vince met her in a park and  
drove her to her convent where  
she spent the rest of the  
night.  

Sister Annabelle says,  
"It's left its mark on me,"  
and is still leaving its mark.  
As an educator, she noticed  
that although the Chicanas  
were largely illiterate, they  
were in many ways more educa-  
ted than she was. This was  
first brought home to her by  

the realization that she  
could not speak to them in  
their language, but they  
could speak to her in hers.  
About half the women were bi-  
lingual.  

She said the women knew a-  
bout the movement they were  
involved in ("la causa") and  
could speak about it articu-  
lately. Their leader was 19-  
year-old Gloria, who could  
translate instantaneously,  
and did so when people of ei-  
ther language visited.  

Although there were 54 wo-  
men in one barracks where they  
lived in dormitory style with  
little physical privacy, the  
Chicanas afforded each other  
an adequate measure of "psy-  
chic privacy." "I never felt  
crowded or that my privacy was  
being infringed upon," said  
Sister Annabelle.  

The experience made her  
think about the strength that  
comes from powerlessness. It  
is the will to make a better  
life, the freedom from mater-  
ial possessions. It is the  
strength that comes from hav-  
ing nothing to lose.  

Ne thee EDN a is  
ee. Vogel —  

he seems only motion, and I see  

time as shadows against the hills  

and death, a dry curl of white birch.  
He stands at the edge of the yard  

and his silence tumbles us  

into the awesome gauze of the sky.  
Then do I become one with his worship;  
with the birds at their bath,  

and the oaks on their knees,  

warm as though orbed by his arms.  

Sy Reo OW RO La Be OO  

At dusk when the bluffs burn red,  

and the trees are assembled for vespers,  
he comes to feed the birds,  

priest of crusts and seeds.  

His service suspends the fading day;  

the light in the kitchen dims,  

the dishes run liquid, sucked  

from my hands down the black sink drain.  
He moves between feeders so softly  

AR  

v)

BROLLING  
AYER  

I happened to visit the Women's Erotic Art  
Show in the company of a man who joked about  
his nervousness at the prospect of being  
made into a sex symbol. As it turned out,  
nothing of the sort was in sight when we ar-  
rived at the Guild of Performing Arts where  
the show was held. I suspect that it will  
be some while before more people understand  
that feminists are not particularly interes-  
ted in mirror views, except perhaps as in-  
structive examples. We have too many objec-  
tions to the structure of society to blithe-  
ly do unto men as they have done unto us.  

So what constitutes female eroticism if  
not images of nude men with genitals waving?  
The women have put together a highly cere-  
bral collection which sees sexuality as a  
part of a social continuum, rather than a  
prurient pause. The almost formulaic attrac-  
tion of exposed organs topped by steamy  
glances plays a small role in this exhibi-  

tion.  
Humor rears its unpredictable head more  

than once, although I do not think every-  
body will laugh on cue. Take Susan Fiene  
Brown's ceramic "Adjustable Tit-Tureen" with  
its large breast demurely balanced on paw-  
like legs. The gears protrude from the base  
of the breast which is surrounded by a move-  
able shell. The idea is that the gears con-  
trol the position of the shell so that the  
viewer may have a breast of exactly the de-  
sired size.  

Another comic achievement is "What More Do  
You Want?" a cartoon by Marcella Williams.  
Somewhat in the Steig tradition, this simple  
drawing shows a naked woman reclining on her  
elbows. She is casting a wanly ironic gaze  
at a fierce little man who has entered her  
and lies engulfed to his shoulders. He has  
tossed the title question at his conqueror  
with such irritable ill will that I couldn't  
help but side with her. I imagine that  
other viewers, feminist or not, will enter  
much the same allegiance.  

These jocular approaches to the human body  
will probably arouse little erectile tissue  
in passersby. Eroticism has traditionally  
been a method of "getting away from it all,"  
and there has been no place in it for annoy-  
ing social commentary.  

The Women's Erotic Art Show changes all  
that. In practice, thought usually enhances,  
rather than inhibits, sexual pleasure. It's  
time that erotic artists appreciate the  
spice that comes from mental additives.  

Two related entries concentrate on female  
genitals. Debra Lorensen's fabric "Refuge"  
is a white cylinder with a warm red interior.  
Deep in the interior is a small, provocative  
button.  

A mixed media piece by Patricia Kerr exhi-  
bits a similarly impassive sensuality. A  
wooden carton with “Danger...Fuzes" marked  
on the sides is filled with white fur. A  
large, luminous red globe extrudes through  
a zippered opening in the furs and appears  

A Review  
by Susan Cushman  

almost to throb.  

I was not surprised at this interest in  
female bodies. The male body has been so  
diligently protected from the exposure which  
eroticism demands, that there is little  
groundwork for artists to share if they in-  
cline toward the subject. After all, do you  
show them up or down? How do you keep them  
from looking just a bit silly?  

Naked women, of course, never look silly,  
because we are too used to seeing ourselves  
portrayed that way. But women artists do  
have an obligation to invigorate some tired  
old conceptions that have been around too  
long. When women turn appreciative, knowing  
eyes on each other, the manmade artistic  
stereotypes are bound to slip out of view.  

The Women's Erotic Art Show is intimate,  
with 47 entries, and recommended. It con-  
tinues at the Guild of Performing Arts,  

504 Cedar Avenue through October 31.  

The gracefulness of Libra, it has been  
remarked, is like that of a Gothic arch:  
beauty based on balanced stress.  

Venus rules this sign: Venus, planet of  
love and art, representative of the des-  
cent of spirit into matter. For Venus-  
ruled Taurus, this manifests itself as  
earthy sensuality. But for Libra, the  
Venusian qualities are revealed as an  
abstract arrangement of opposing forces:  
hence the stereotypical disputative Libran  
always ready to take the "other side."  

The critical Libran consideration is  
the appropriate division of energy between  
social and personal needs. Born near the  
autumn equinox--when the light-ego is fast  
losing hours to the darkness-collective--  
Libra tends to overemphasize social  
demands. But the still-strong ego asserts  
itself regularly. Like its opposite, asser-  
tive Aries, the Libran perches on an un-  
easy edge between the demands of the inner  
self and those of the outward society. In  
contrast to Aries, however, Libra argues  
for the larger view, never using conflict  
to define personal territory.  

That Libra is often praised as a "femi-  
nine" sign--while it is actually an out-  
ward or "masculine" sign--is an interest-  
ing phenomenon. The rulership of Venus no  
doubt accounts for some of this attribu-  
tion, but Libra's tendency towards ex-  
cessive acculturation could as well be  
cited as cause. Luckily for Libran women,  
this balance between inward and outward  
represents a kind of androgyny, in that  
the Libran--always looking at both sides--  
is usually able to accept both her "male"  
and “female" qualities.  

NOTE: This article concludes Arcotti's  
year-long series of feminist interpreta-  
tions of zodiacal signs. Readers are in-  
vited to submit questions on astrological  
subjects, for answer in Gold Flower.

eH HOH I TOI HK KK KIKI TOK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KKK KK

Battles Won

"The state Human Rights Board has made a
finding of discrimination in the decision of
an Austin radio and television station not to
hire a woman for a news job.

"The complaint was filed March 6, 1973, by
Elizabeth R. Watson against station KAUS.
Mrs. Watson contended she was promised a
broadcast news job but then was not hired by
news director Gary Peterson because of her
sex.

"State Human Rights Commissioner Samuel
Richardson had found that there was not prob-
able cause for a finding of discrimination.
His decision was overruled by the board af-
ter an appeal by Mrs. Watson.

"Thomas Donaldson, deputy human rights com-
missioner, said the case will be reinvesti-
gated prior to setting up a conciliation
meeting.

"Donaldson said the board's finding was is-
sued Aug. 20. He said the board found that
discrimination existed but declined to re-
lease the board's decision in full."

St. Paul Dispatch

KKK KKK KKK KKK KK KKK Kk

"Some 150 University of Minnesota Hospital
employees will get monthly pay increases of
$85 to $100 based on an agreement to end “sex
discrimination" against a predominantly fe-
male group of custodial workers, a union off-
icial said.

"(Paul Goldberg, director of American Feder-
ation of State, County and Municipal Employ-
ees) said that previously a predominantly fe-
male group of hospital employees, classed as
custodial workers, were paid $440 to $550 a
month. The hospital janitor classification,
mostly male employees, received $525 to $650
a month, he said.

"The custodial workers will be reclassified
to the new position of hospital custodian at
the same pay as janitors, he said.

"Our concern was, right on the surface, sex
discrimination because cleaning is cleaning,"
he said. "In the past we heard arguments
that a janitor does all the heavy work--run-
ning the buffer and big mops--while custodial
workers do only light chores. But it was our
judgment that there's not $100 a month diff-
erence between the two positions."

St. Paul Dispatch

KK KKK KKK KK KKK KKK KKK

"A consulting firm in Silver Spring has a-
greed to pay more than $53,000 in back pay
and court fees to women employees who accu-
sed the company of salary discrimination to-
ward them.

"Miss Patrick (a research analyst) noted
that the firm also agreed to count teaching
experience as professional experience. Call-
ing it "a big victory" because the firm tend-
ed not to credit such work when determining
salaries for women but did so for men with
experience in other fields.

Battles Lost

"Much as I have already stated on the viru-
lent effects of this discharge, I have to
state, in addition, that bees, it is a well-
known fact, will forsake their hives if
touched by a menstruous woman; that linen
boiling in the cauldron will turn black,
that the edge of a razor will become
blunted, and that copper vessels will con-
tract a fetid smell and become covered with
‘verdigrease, on coming in contact with her.
A mare big with foal, if touched by a woman
in this state, will be sure to miscarry; nay,
even more than this, at the very sight of a
woman, though seen at a distance even should
she happen to be menstruating for the first
time after the loss of her virginity, or for
the first time, while in a state of virgini-
ty. The bitumen that is found in Judaea,
will yield to nothing but the menstrual dis-
charge; its tenacity being overcome, as al-
ready stated, by the agency of a thread from
a garment which has been brought in contact
with this fluid. Fire itself even, an ele-
ment which triumphs over every other sub-
stance, is unable to conquer this; for if re-
duced to ashes and then sprinkled upon gar-
ments when about to be scoured, it will
change their purple tint, and tarnish the
brightness of the colors. Indeed so perni-
cious are its properties, that women them-
selves, the source from which it is derived,
are far from being proof against its effects;
a pregnant woman, for instance, if touched
with it, or indeed if she so much as steps
over it, will be liable to miscarry.

The National History of Pliny
Volume V

KKK KKKKK KKK KK KKK KKK

"Controversy entered the Miss America Pa-
geant Friday when Miss New Hampshire, 22-year
old Michelle Arnette Cote, lost the support
of her hometown newspaper because of her
frank view on gay liberation, women's rights
and other topics.

"They asked my opinion on certain things
like women's liberation and the gay move-
ment," Miss Cote said. "I said I supported
any liberation movement that would restore
dignity and allow people not to be discrimin-
ated against."

St. Paul Dispatch

Kak kkk kk kk kkk kk kkk

Keen, sometimes tearful disappointment was
voiced by many representatives of the Epis-
copal Church after its convention refused to
admit women to its priesthood...The narrow
defeat of the proposal to permit ordination
came in a complex bloc-voting system that
rejected it even though a majority of in-
dividual votes actually were for it. Oppo-
nents insisted that preservation of an ex-
clusively male clergy was essential to main-
tain the church's tradition and further re-
lationships with Roman Catholicism and East-
ern Orthodoxy, which do not ordain women.

=-Mpis. Star, Oct. 5

Pe PK KK HK IK KK KK KIKI KK IKK TKK KKK KK KKKKK KKK KKK

Women's place is still  
very much down and out  
in the decision making  
process of St. Paul city  
government. This was evident  
in a meeting last week be-  
tween Mayor Larry Cohen and  
approximately twenty people  
from the St. Paul chapter  
of NOW. Despite Cohen's  
Affirmative Action Program  
aimed at eliminating dis-  
crimination against women  
and minorities we find:  

The Human Rights Dept. and  
Model Cities are the only  
programs in which women  
find representation in  
above the clerical level.  
In the Human Rights Dept.  
there are only nineteen  
women in such paid positions  
as compared with 100 men.  

A county Affirmative Action  
officer, Ken Jones, refuses  
to deal with the women's  
issue as a concern of the  
program until minorities  
achieve complete represen-  

police dept. are not only  
unaware of other cities  
hiring women for tradition-  
ally male jobs, but refuse  
to do so. Instead, they ex-  
cuse the situation by  
citing qualifying tests and  
height and weight restric-  
tions that often don't  
reflect needs of the job.  
Cohen, who generally took  
the stance of a willing,  

advisor, was kept on the  
defensive much of the time.  

Interested in serving  
on a public interest  
board? Women's Skills  
Bank is a group now  
working to increase the  
number of women appoin-  
ted to state boards by  
the Governor's office.  

A coalition of many  
diverse women's groups  
within the city, it's  
hoping to extend its  
services to women out-  
state as well. In order  
to ensure better rep-  
resentation for all  
groups they are asking  
help in finding inter-  
ested women for these  
positions. Maintaining  

a current list of vacan-  
cies, Skills Bank will  
set up files of such  
people to recommend as  
openings occur on the  
boards.  

Any of these positions  
pay a per diem amount.  

NOW and Cohen Dispute  
Human Rights Progress  

SKILLS BANK  

His announcement that Ed  
McGaw, a local coordinator  
of AIM, was his new appoin-  
tee as deputy Director of  
the Human Rights Dept. drew  
several groans. It seems  
these women have made many  
unsuccessful attempts to  
convince McGaw of the jus-  
tice of or even the meaning  
of a women's rights move-  
ment.  

Embarrassed earlier by a  
lack of any employment  
figures on women in city  
government, Cohen now had  
to admit he “hadn't thought  
to question” McGaw on  
women's rights issues.  

Yes, he realized that  

many of the complaints  
received by Human Rights  
were under sex discrim-  
ination. Yes, someone  

in his position should  

be aware of sexism in  

the city departments.  

No, he didn't feel firing  
McGaw, police chief Rowan  
(who he didn't appoint),  
or Ken Jones and publicly  
announcing the cause as  
sexism, would help the  
matter. He seemed dis-  
turbed, however, and at  
least made a promise to  
change the situation.  
Other concerns of the  
group were also taken  
into consideration by  
Cohen. It was requested  
that the Consumer Protec-  
tion Agency investigate  
discriminatory practices  

or expenses for meetings  
and are on such license  
and examining boards as  
the following;  
Board of Health  
Nursing Homes  
Accountancy  
Architects, Engineers  
Cosmetology  
Psychology  
Veterinary  
If interested, send the  
following information to:  
Women's Skills Bank  
Dept. of Human Rights  
Capitol Square  
Building, St. Paul  
Include: name, address,  
phone, education, work  
experience, community  
involvement, and special  
interest area. It's also  
helpful to have letters  
of recommendation from  
elected officials, com-  
munity leaders or groups,  
political organizations  
etc. etc.  

by  

Merry Urbia  

by employment agencies,  
as has been done so suc-  
cessfully by its model  
in New York.  

Cohen also expressed con-  
cern over the tendency of  
Affirmative Action to in-  
crease competition between  
minority and women's  
issues. He claimed a more  
“wholistic” approach was  
needed and committed him-  
self to that end.  

All in all, the meeting  
didn't indicate a hopeless  
situation, but one where  

a lot of pushing, pulling,  
and general consciousness  
raising is still needed.  
If you're having problems  
with St. Paul city depart-  
ments or want to organize  
for change, contact NOW.  
They seem to have more in-  
formation than City Hall  
and you have a guaranteed  
good reception.  

LIFE IN  
MIDDLE EARTH  
A St. Paul art shop and  
gallery is currently fea-  
turing the work of four  
local artists, two of the  
women. Their exhibits are  
at Middle Earth, 2042  
St. Clair Ave. and will  
continue through Oct. 31.  
A variety of prints done  
by lithograph, etching,  
seriograph, and block  
printing are being shown  
by former Minneapolis art  
instructor, Joan Bohlig.  
Her main subjects, child-  
ren and nature objects,  
seem stereotypical areas  
for a woman, but are made  
interesting by her mostly  
imagistic style of work.  
Bohlig also creates non-  
representational collages  
as a form of painting. She  
regards her interpretation  
of sprouts and melting  
snow, etc. primarily as  
"statements about color,  
arrangement and pattern."  
Large, unconventional and  
imaginative wall hangings  
are the work of the second  
woman artist, Riana Scamp.  
They are made mostly from  
macramé twine with such  
additions as shells and  
beads placed for specific  
effect. Originally from  
Holland, Scamp has won  
numerous awards for her  
creations and is a maker  
of fine jewelry as well.  
The two men in the show,  
Mike Ehrigh and Doug John-  
son, also present some in-  
teresting work in pottery  
and blown glass. It's a  
small exhibit, but worth  
seeing, whether you want  
to buy or just look. More  
information can be gotten  
from the Middle Earth  
people at 698-4377.

Minnesota's first state  
wide conference of the  
National Organization of  
Women (NOW) will be held  
Nov. 3-4 at Macalester  
College in St. Paul. Pur-  
pose of the conference is  
to elect a state coordin-  
ator and in general bring  
people together to work  
out methods of fighting  
sexism.  

The conference, which is  
open to the public, has  
several registration pro-  
cedures available, depen-  
ding on how much time and  
money you want to invest.  
Regular registration, $16,  
includes both days, with  
two lunches and dinner plus  

Conference of MWPC This  

the 1973 Annual Convention of  
the Minnesota Women's Polit-  
ical Caucus will be held on  
Saturday and Sunday, November  
17 and 18, 1973, at Hamline  
University, St. Paul.  

NOW. HOLDING CONFERENCE  

entertainment. There's also  
a one day form for Sat.,  
Sun. or special events; and  
another for those who  
can't afford to pay at all.  
Plans for the conference  
include the following:  
workshops that cover  
numerous topics—rape,  
women in poverty, the  
corporate wife; feminist  
arts and crafts that will  
be on display throughout  
the weekend—many for  
sale; a special program  

of music, dance and drama  
expressing the feminist  
viewpoint; and a special  
conference for girls 3-12  
yrs. of age with workshops,  
speakers, and training  

Saturday workshops and sess-  
ions begin with registration  
at 9 a.m. Sunday business  
meetings begin at 9:30 a.m.  
Consumer activist Alpha Sma-  
by and DFL feminist Arvonne  

sessions.  
Anyone interested in re-  
serving space to display  
arts and crafts should  
send the following infor-  
mation to St. Paul NOW  
Box 80065  
Como Ave.  
Station  
St. Paul, Min.  
by Oct. 25—Include name,  
address, phone and no. of  
feet for display. Other  
questions can also be  
sent to the same address.  

Month  

Fraser will appear at the  
Convention.  

Contact Martha Schlader, 5719  
Scenic Circle, Minnetonka  
55343 for further informatio  
regarding convention pre-  
registration.  

RESOURCES  

Youth  

YOUTH WORKER: Delinquency  
prevention staff worker to  
work on North Side Service Co-  
ordination, Resource Develop-  
ment, Systems Modification,  
and directly with North Side  
$9,000/year. Send  
resume by October 25 to  
Northside Youth Service Bur-  
1404 W. Broadway Ave.,  

Physician  

ITHACA, N.Y. — We are put-  
ting together a primary health  
care clinic and refer-  
ral service in downtown Itha-  
ca. We will charge on a slid-  
ing fee scale—no pressure.  
We want to stress preventive  
medicine. So far, we have  
more than 30 active members  
(some of them with nursing  
and other medical skills).  
Our biggest needs now are for  
money and a full-time doctor.  
If you are a doctor and if  
you want to work with a clin-  
ic that has its roots in the  
community it will serve, write  
to: Terry Barker, 415 Elm St,  
Ithaca, N.Y. 14850. Ithaca  
is a small city in a beauti-  
ful region of upstate New  
York. There are many commu-  
nity-based projects here.  

The next meeting of the  
Women Historians of the  
Midwest will be 7:30 pm,  
November 7, at the home of  
Delores Johnson, 4534 Fre-  
mont Ave. S.  

Women’s Film  

WOMEN'S FILM CO-OP, 200 Main  
St., Northampton, MA 01060,  
(413) 586-2011, distributes  
feminist films throughout the  
country and publishes a cata-  
logue listing their own films  
as well as others with infor-  
mation on where to obtain them.  
Please send a donation  
for the catalogue.  

Welfare  

WELFARE COUNSELING—From his  
experiences with organizing  
and managing a welfare advo-  
cacy bureau in San Diego,  

Ray Schwartz hopes to help  
others improve their projects  
or start new ones. A how-  
to-do-it manual, the Welfare  
Advocate Handbook, shows the  
way to build and operate ad-  
vocacy centers. The second  
edition is free but he asks  
that you send an 8¢ stamp for  
postage. CONTACT: Ray  
Schwartz, 1507 Tarbox, San  
Diego, CA 92114.  

Law Reporter  

WOMEN'S RIGHTS LAW REPORTER,  
180 University Ave., Newark,  
N.J. 07102; covers development  
in law which particularly aff-  
ects women, such as education,  
employment, abortion, family  
law, health care, taxes, etc.  
The Reporter appears four  
times a year. Single issues  
are available for three dol-  
lars, a six-issue subscrip-  
tion costs $15 for individuals,  
$28 for institutions.  

New Vocation  

MINNEAPOLIS: New Vocations  
Project, 2314 Elliot Ave. So.  
55404; (612) 335-2424; is a  
resource center for persons  
trying to create non-alienat-  
ing work situations. Most of  
their energy is directed to-  
wards efforts that foster  
community self-direction in  
Southside Minneapolis, but  
they are prepared to consider  
helping groups in other areas.  
Resources include experience  
in organizing community-or-  
iented businesses, in voca-  
tional counseling and in pub-  
lishing. NVP will begin a  
new bi-monthly magazine in

“Women Either Cope or Build”

I have always thought soli-
tude essential in order to get
in touch with oneself and be-
come a strong, autonomous per-
son. Solitude can be peace-
ful, an inward-tuning time of
self-exploration.

For most people in the west-
ern world, however, solitude
is feared and avoided. They
do not know how to make con-
structive use of solitude,
and this is especially true

of women.
A woman is taught from the

earliest moments of infancy
that she will never be alone.
Indeed, she is taught that a-
loneness is a lack rather than
an opportunity. She expects
to marry, have children, grand
children. She is trained to
find escape from loneliness
not in herself, from whom she
could learn the most, or from
other women, with whom she has
the most in common, but from
men, who have shared and un-
derstand few of her vital exper-
iences and feelings, and from
children, who are unequipped
for adult relationships.

loneliness

In her book The Woman Alone

(The New York Times Book Co.,
278 pp., $7.95) Patricia
O'Brien tells that she lived
just such a life for most of
her years. She spent her
childhood and young adulthood
dreaming of marriage, which
materialized after her sopho-
more year in college; she
dropped out and bore four
children.

In spite of her fulfilled
dreams, she was unhappy. She
began to learn some lessons
about loneliness. "I could
not understand what was hap-
pening. I had everything I
was ever supposed to have
wanted, yet I would find my-
self crying while I folded di-
apers. Was it loneliness I
felt? But how could I be
lonely? People were around
constantly. My life had shape
and direction and substance--
what was wrong with me? In
fact I had been alone only one
time in my life, a night short-
ly after my fourth daughter
was born. I remember twice
turning off the lights and try-
ing to go to sleep, each time
getting up and turning them on
again, irritated with my cow-
ardice but too filled with

A Book Review

by Jan Jirak

nameless fears to resist. Fi-
nally I settled down in the
living room to wait out the
night, sleepless, a butcher
knife beside me. I was then

twenty-seven years old.
wings

She decided to finish col-
lege with a major in journal-
ism. "We bought an old Ply-
mouth for $100 and I drove to
school each morning, singing
with the radio, thinking new
ideas and feeling new emo-
tions. I loved that car. It
gave me wings."

After graduation, she took a
reporting job. While her love
for her work increased, her
marriage ran into trouble.
After a year of futile coun-
seling, she decided to leave.
She took a job on the Chicago
Sun-Times, 80 miles away, and
came home on weekends. Thus
began two years of being alone
the first real solitude she
had ever known. During that
time she met and conquered
loneliness, came to know and
love herself through her sol-
itude and by seeking out
other women alone.

O'Brien recounts the devel-
opment of her sense of
strength and identification
with other women. She re-
cords scores of stories of
women in diverse situations,
all part of the collective
female experience.

Ms. O'Brien tells these sto-
ries with sympathy and percep-
tion.

age

She explores the subject of
age by her story of a 100-
year-old woman's birthday par-
ty. She hated the fussing o-
ver a person usually ignored.

covtinurd. frm puctedng page.  
Woman Alone Learns Power  

"But on this particular day,  
it was different... A daughter  
handed me a family book that  
recounted this woman's life,  

which I found truly engrossing.  

She had crossed the plains in  
a covered wagon with her hus-  
band all those many years ago,  
-.-.- endured the death of her  
husband, the deaths of her  
children, and had then grown  
old quietly alone...  

All the usual questions  
seemed ridiculous when put to  
those clear, sad eyes. I  
tried a new one, actually cur-  
ious about how this unordinary  
person would answer. ‘What  
would you like to do most now  
now?' I asked. She turned,  
fully facing me, a sliver of  
bright light turning her eyes  
electric for a second. ‘I  
would like to die,' she said.  

"At least she was able to  
state her preference."  

love  

She confronts the question  
of loving, and reaches for a  
broader definition of love.  
She refutes fear of same-sex  
love. "Our concern about love  
is so fearful and limiting...  
Who knows what might happen  
if two men or two women ack-  
nowledge deep affection and  

An exhibition of black and  
white painted wood sculpture  
by LOUISE NEVELSON opens  

in November at Walker Art  
Center.  

The elderly artist will visit  
Minneapolis to celebrate the  
opening of the exhibition.  

The show will consist of some  
80 works, including 20 large-  
scale "wall" pieces, executed  
by Nevelson during the past  
two decades. Nevelson is  
acknowledged  

as one of the foremost "assemblage" artists,  
and creates her complex works  
from accumulated crates, box-  
es and other wooden "found  
objects."  

care? Social structures might  
collapse; institutions topple.  
Landlords would complain. The  
sun might not come up tomor-  
row. We fear ‘unnatural' sex  
relationships, because we have  
made what is natural a distor-  
tion, and so we deny feeling.  
But if women can't reach out  
for other women, nor men for  
other men, aren't we less ab-  
le to realize love in a full  
sense? Haven't we, then, all  
lost something?"  

Power  

O'Brien learned to under-  
stand the powerlessness of wo-  
men. "I sometimes have felt  
painfully inarticulate in work  
situations, usually when they  
are of particular importance  
to me. One day I went into  
my editor's office with an  
idea for a story, first care-  
fully preparing what I wanted  
to say, defensive about how  
good it might be and afraid  
he would think it was terri-  
ble. In the midst of our un-  
derstandably stilted conversa-  
tion a male reporter strolled  
in, greeted the editor, and  
casually talked about a pro-  
ject that interested him,  
throwing in a request for  
time off. The two men, both  

outwardly relaxed and easy,  
negotiated a bit and settled  
the problem within a few mo-  
ments. I sat there, my  
speech out the window, envi-  
ous and frustrated, wondering  
why that type of encounter  
came so easily for the man  
and so hard for me.  

"David Riesman has sugges-  
ted that a basic problem for  
working women is they do not  
know how to make use of the  
informal structure that men  
use in the process of advan-  
cing their careers. Women  
are not and never will be  
casual members of the undefin-  
able but always present male  
circle, whether in the office,  
the city room, the factory,  
or the university, which is  
why, if they want to achieve,  
they must work twice as hard  
as their male counterparts.  
Men no longer believe in Hor-  
atio Alger, but it seems many  
women do, and they have for-  
gotten he was a man."  

O'Brien emphasizes that  
seizing power means a willing-  
ness to risk, whether it be  
failure or unpopularity.  
Choosing solitude means risk-—  
ing loneliness--but success  
is impossible without risk,  
and is the beginning of liber-  
ation.

Midwifery Frees Women From

By Heit Kemper.

A quiet revolution in maternity care is
taking place in the Twin Cities.

Pregnancy and childbirth are functions of
normal, healthy women, but until recently,
illness-oriented care has been given to the
99.9 percent of women who give birth to
their children in hospitals. Obstetricians
and nurses agree that 90 percent of births
are normal and could be safely attended by
trained midwives in a more comfortable set-
ting.

Now that advances in medical technology
have made a safe birth experience almost a
foregone conclusion, people are now turning
their attention to making childbirth exper-
ience emotionally satisfying as well.

This revolution is quiet for several rea-
sons. There is a real need for caution while
developing alternative childbirth methods
that are necessarily dependent on the estab-
lished medical community for back-up assist-
ance in case of emergency. With the lowest
birth rate in recent years, an alternative
style of childbirth is seen as a threat to
the general practitioner and obstetrician's
bread and butter.

But what is bread and butter to the ob-
stetrician is meat and drink to the midwife,
according to a local pioneer in family-cen-
tered childbirth.

Control and Choice in Childbirth

This is also a revolution—manned by
consumers demanding control and choice in
what can be a most interesting, joyous phys-
ical experience.

Changes in childbirth are being influ-
enced from outside as well as inside the med-
ical professions. Private groups like the
Childbirth Education Association have grown
at a spectacular rate. And this has happen-
ed at a time when the birth rate in the
Twin Cities has dropped from 134 births per
1,000 in 1960 to 20 births per 1,000 in 1968
(the last available figure).

Last year the Childbirth Education Assoc-
iation (CEA) trained more than 1,300 couples
in prepared childbirth techniques. The CEA
now has more applications than it can hand-
le.

Men are re-entering the ceremony of birth
to be with their women in the delivery room.
A few years ago, this was unheard of and e-
ven prohibited by hospital regulations.

Less than ten years ago, a man in California
chained himself to his wife so they could

experience their child's birth together. The
hospital attempted legal action against him.

Women can have babies in a variety of
ways. Ether and forceps were an advance
that had women being delivered of their
children, rather than actively taking part.
You can still have a "knock ‘em out, drag
‘em out" delivery or you can be temporarily
paralyzed by spinal anesthetics or be eased
by gases to inhale. There are anesthetics
(per-cervical block) that can numb the uter-
us for a short period of time and provide
a helpful rest during labor. Breathing ex-
ercises and learning how to ride with con-
tractions rather than fighting against them
can ease a labor considerably.

Childbirth’s “Chains”

With knowledge of the variety available
to them, couples are choosing obstetrical
care according to their own personal phil-
osophies, even if it means shopping around
for the right doctor or midwife. And you can
be sure that patients taking their bus-
iness elsewhere will have an effect on the
kind of care offered in the future.

Changes in childbirth style have been
happening faster than the medical profession
or individuals can keep track of. One ma-
jor change is the demise of the traditional
granny midwife and the rise of a new pro-
fessional—the nurse-midwife.

Granny midwifery (rhymes with sniffery)
in Minnesota is not far behind us. Mrs.
Ebba Kirschbaum, the last midwife licensed
by the Minnesota Medical Board of Examiners,
retired last year after aiding the birth of
almost 1,700 children. Her retirement also
brought an end to home deliveries, at least
for the time being.

Lucy Cutler was one of the last women
Mrs. Kirschbaum attended. Ms. Cutler has
experienced both hospital and home deliver-
ies and is vocal about the differences. She

had her first child in a hospital.

"Hospitals are geared to curing the prob-
lems they cause," says Ms. Cutler. She and
her husband, Bruce, figure they spent $70
per hour for a doctor to endanger two lives
and ignore their wishes.

Ms. Cutler says her obstetrician's manner
was deceptive. They had discussed her wishes
for no anesthetic or restraints during del-
ivery (women are routinely strapped down
for delivery in modern hospitals).

"He seemed to go along with my ideas,
he didn't disagree with me. He was very
relaxed and casual, which I liked," she
continues.

Her confidence was shaken when she asked
for advice on labor and delivery during an
office visit near the end of her pregnancy.
Her doctor told her not to worry, that it
was too early to discuss it. She went into
labor the next week.

During her labor, Ms. Cutler was given a
"routine anesthetic" despite her protesta-
tions—a spinal block (which deadens feel-
ing from the waist down, interfering with
the control women had up to that point).

Her legs were restrained in stirrups against
her wishes.

When her child was born, she thought it
was someone else's child crying—she did not
feel the birth she had so happily antic-
ipated.

"It was worse than a rape," she says.
"At least with a rape you have many other
opportunities to have a positive experience.
But you don't have too many chances to ex-
perience birth."

Angered by their experiences with hospi-
tal delivery, the Cutlers sought out Ebba
Kirschbaum to deliver their next child at

conned on next

KNOCK ‘EM OUT DRAG ‘EM OUT ETHIC DYING

home. Lucy Cutler embroidered a special  
birth dress for the occasion and consulted  
Mrs. Kirschbaum frequently during her preg-  
nancy. When labor began, Mrs. Kirschbaum  
went to the Cutler home to attend the birth.  

"She was like a wedding attendant who  
arranges the bride's hair," says Ms. Cutler.  
"In my own home I was free to yell without  
disturbing anyone or getting medication  
against my will. It felt good to yell.  
Kirschbaum asked me if I wanted gas. I said  
no and that was it."  

Was she afraid of the dangers of home  
deliveries?  

"If you die in a hospital, it's OK," says  
Ms. Cutler. "But if you cough at home you're  
taking a risk! I'd feel guiltier if I went  
to a hospital and something went wrong."  

Lucy Cutler doesn't have much faith in the  
family-centered maternity care being offered  
by hospitals in the area. "To me that means  
when the nurses and staff have nothing else  
to do they will attend to my needs," she  
says.  

When General Hospital was asking public  
feedback while planning the new maternity  
wing, Cutler submitted a plan that reflects  
her professional background in wildlife  
management.  

Her plans consider the instinctual de-  
sires of women in labor, patterned after  
the universal behavior of animals in labor.  

Her facility would have as little to do  
with illness as possible. It would have  
lamps and double beds and be similar to a  
motel where "you could kick off your shoes  
and close the door-- a place where you could  
come with your chosen companions, your own  
blankets and other nesting equipment and  
stake out your territorial claim." Cutler  
says a woman in labor who knows what is  
going on should be the final authority re-  
garding her care during childbirth.  

Private room at Hennepin General  

Margaret Hewitt, a nurse-midwife at  
Hennepin County General Hospital, agrees.  
She informs us that there is now one room  
at General where patients can labor, deliv-  
er and recover and return home soon after  
birth.  

"This is a pilot thing to see if this is  
what women really want. But how many come  
to General to have their children?" says  
Ms. Hewitt who delivers about one baby a  
week herself.  

If women make use of this alternative,  
there are ten other private rooms that  
could be used this way.  

"If we found this was an up and coming  
thing we would have them available too,"  
says Ms. Hewitt.  

Hewitt sees no medical support for home  
births. "I would prefer that couples att-  
empting home births do it alone rather  
than depend on untrained attendants," she  
says. "At the first sign of trouble, the  
couple would be more likely to seek medical  
help."  

Ms. Hewitt sees benefits in women's re-  
newed participation in their birth exper-  
iences, "In the last 70 years, birth has  
been taken over by men and the benefits of  

that system have run out," she says. "The  
highest reproductive act for the male  
is orgasm. Childbirth is women's highest."  

"Doctors say I will take over and de-  
liver you of your child. I will give you  
knowledge, be technical advisor and inter-  
vene for your safety," she continues.  

"But men cannot understand women's sex-  
uality any more than women can understand  
the nature of man's."  

Another energetic woman making changes  

in the local childbirth experience is  

Sharon Rising at the University of Minnesota  
School of Nursing.  

Her plan for a master's degree program in  
nurse-midwifery became a reality this fall.  
Ninety women applied for entrance into the  
two-year program. Six full-time and ten  
part-time students have begun training.  

This is not granny midwifery but an  
extension of the nursing function with the  
backup of modern medical expertise and fac-  
ilities in case of emergency. The training  
will emphasize the comfort and emotional  
needs of pregnant women through a contin-  
uous woman-to-woman relationship.  

Rising has been working on plans for a  
separate child-bearing, child-rearing, fam-  
ily planning clinic. It would be an altern-  
ative to existing family care, providing a  
place for home-centered childbirth and t  
training for nurse-midwives. It could also  
be the base for a group midwifery practice,  
in which women would have one midwife for  
primary care but know them all in case her  
primary midwife was unable to attend her  
birth.  

Other health care professionals, ped-  
iatricians and child psychologists are in-  
terested in Rising's clinic, but until fund-  
ing is available, it will remain a plan.  
Funding is particularly difficult, says  
Rising, because this community is consider-  
ed to have good existing health care facil-  
ities. It requires active lobbying on the  
part of consumers to support alternatives.  

And pressure from consumers brings al-  
ternatives into existence. When Sharon Ri-  
sing completed her training at Yale less  
than five years ago, there were few places  
where she could practice her profession. Be-  
cause of women's interest in woman-to-  
woman childbirth care, hospitals are now  
looking for nurse-midwives and private ob-  
stetrical practices are wanting to include  
midwifery in the services they offer pati-  
ents.  

But it will be vital to the establish-  
ment of midwifery as an alternative for mid-  
wives to be accepted as colleagues, not sub-  
ordinates on these staffs, Rising warns.  

Renewed interest in midwifery parallels  
the women's movement of the past few years.  
The mystical role of the male doctor does  
diminish as the woman-to-woman relation-  
ships grow stronger. But change will be  
necessary from inside the medical commun-  
ity.  

The image of the midwife as a crafty,  
backwoods woman operating in crude con-  
ditions still hangs on. But according to  
Sharon Rising, this is the reverse of what  
it should be. The trained nurse-midwife

it  
Midwifery “time }-  

should be handling the uncomplicated birth  
in a medically sound environment and the  
specialist with training in the complica-  
tions and diseases of pregnancy should be  
reaching patients in outlying areas.  

"The most significant changes in mid-  
wifery will have to come within the estab-  
lished systems," says Rising. "Midwifery  

has existed outside the medical community.  
Doctors have seen only the negative side of  
it when something goes wrong."  

This is unfortunate since midwifery  
requires the backup of established medical  
institutions to function properly. Mid-  
wifery is for healthy normal pregnancy and  
the value of the obstetrician's skill and  
expertise in an emergency are not to be dis-  
counted.  

But obstetricians rarely take the time to  
deal with the pregnant human being and this  
is an advantage of continuous woman-to-woman  
care by a midwife. An office visit en-  
compasses the woman's feelings and fears  
as well as her physical condition. And a  
midwife helps guide the patient's labor  
rather than arriving in the nick of time  
to catch the baby.  

Utilizing midwives could lessen the  
cost of OB care. The care would be more  
extensive in terms of time spent with the  
patient, but the expensive emergency  
equipment used in every hospital delivery  
room could be limited to one emergency  
room, bringing down the overhead.  

Another factor in the cost of midwife  
care is insurance. At the present time,  
midwifery is not recognized as medical  
care by insurance companies. This is an-  
other area where consumer pressure must  
bring about change.  

In Rising's office, a colorful poster  
declares BEHOLD THE TURTLE. HE ONLY MAKES  

BARNED ROWS  

THE PRIME OF MISS JEAN BRO-  
8 pm, Nov. 1, 25-37 9%  
10. Macalester College.  

DANCE  

AGNES DE MILLE, Heritage  
Dance Theater.  
Northrop Auditorium.  

ART EXHIBITS  

ENCOUNTER WITH ARTISTS 12,  

an exhibition of sculpture by  
EVELYN RAYMOND and mosaics  

by MARJORIE KREILICK, opened  
Oct. 18 at the Minnesota Mu-  
seum of Art, 30 E.  
Raymond has been  
well-known locally as a scul-  

MUSIC  

JUDY COLLINS, 7 and 10 pm,  
Oct. 19, O'Shaughnessy Aud.  
POINTER SISTERS, 7:30 and  
10:30 pm, Nov. 11, Guthrie.  

DIE.  

JACQUELINE DUPRE, 8 pm, Nov.  
29, O'Shaughnessy Aud; 8:30  
pm, Oct. 30, Northrop Aud.  
ANNE-CHARLOTTE HARVEY, folk  
singer, 3 pm, Nov. 17, North-  
rop.  

YVONNE LORIOD, pianist, 8 pm,  
Oct. 21, Guthrie Theater.  
JEAN BRUNZELL, MARJORIE KIRK-  
MAN. Oct. 21, 4 pm, Walker  
Art Center.  

JANIS HARDY, HELLEN GARVEY.  
10:30 a.m. Nov. 8, Walker Art  

St. Paul.  

(Page 3)  

PROGRESS WHEN HE STICKS HIS NECK OUT.  
Across the street from Rising's office,  
Ms. Lois Sonstegard, clinical director of  
obstetrics and gynecology at the University  
of Minnesota Hospitals is also sticking her  
neck out on behalf of women.  

Rules and regulations which interfere  
with satisfying childbearing are being ov-  
ercome by Ms. Sonstegard's carefully laid  

groundwork.  

Many women wish to nurse their newborns  
immediately after delivery. Knowing  

this is psychologically and emotionally ben-  
eficial to mothers and infants and also know-  
ing that it was against hospital policy,  

Ms. Sonstegard allowed it anyway.  

After a period of time, she proposed a  
change of rules to her superiors. When met  
with negative reactions and concern for the  
risks involved, she produced evidence that  
the risks were negligible and were far out-  
weighed by the satisfaction of the patients.  
The rules were changed and parents can now  
hold and nurse their newborns before they  
are taken to the nursery for routine tests  
and observation.  

Another disadvantage of hospital delivery  
is a mother's separation from her other chi-  
ldren. Sonstegard is instituting a chil-  
dren's visiting hour to ease the separation  
for both mother and child and give the fam-  
ily a chance to adjust to a new member.  

"The goal is the most satisfying child-  
birth experience for the people concerned,"  
said Ms. Sonstegard. "There should be no  
feeling of guilt or disappointment or won-  
dering ‘how did I do'," she continued. "  
"When medical care is safe, better care for  
the whole person is important."  

And women all over the Twin Cities area  
are making that happen.  

An exhibition of graphic  
works by noted German artist  
KAETHE KOLLWITZ is now on  
display at 305 St. Peter St.,  
St. Paul, continuing through  
December.  

JUDY BLAIS, oils. Through Oct  
27, Downtown Gallery, IDS  
Center.  

RUTH OSEID, painting. Thru  
December, Gallery Giglio,  
3004 27th Ave. S.;  

8 pm, Nov. 13,  

macrame and  
28-Nov. 10,  
2314 Lowry  

MARYANN KAISER,  
jewelry. Octo.  
Stin-Low Gallery,  
Ave. NE.  

JOYCE BLEGEN, paintings; GAIL  
BAMBER, drawings and prints.  
October, West Lake Gallery,  
1612 W. Lake St.  

10th St.  

Center.  

THEATRE  

LYSISTRATA. 8 pm, Oct. 27,  
Nov. 1, 3, 4. 8 pm, Jewish  
Community Center, 4330 S. Ce-  
dar Lake Rd.  

I, SAID THE FLY. In repertory  

through November. Guthrie  
Theater, Vineland Place.  

28,  

sculptor and teacher for over 30  
years. Kreilick is a member  
of the faculty at the Univer-  
sity of Wisconsin at Madison.  

JO ROLLINS, through Oct. 31,  
Bohlander Gallery, 3605  
Bryant Ave. S.  

SIGNE NELSON STUART, paint-  
ings. Through Nov. 17, Peter  
M. David Gallery, 920 Nic.  

DOROTHY HALL, paintings; BAR-  
BARA RAAT, drawings. November,  
West Lake Gallery, 1612 W.  
Lake Street.  

LINDA SMITH, paintings and  
drawings. Oct. 2-22, Universi-  
ty Gallery, Northrop Aud.  

VEDA HALVORSON, weaving and  
knotting. October, Sons of  
Norway, 1455 W. Lake St.

sex discrimination, continued from page </

box. In it lay an envelope bearing the blue  
Minnesota State Department of Human Rights  
seal. I returned to work, high on adrenalin,  
and awaited a confrontation. Nothing hap-  
pened. All day I studied my supervisor.  

His milky eyes were blank. I weighed the  
mechanical, furry greetings of the corporate  
executives. (This was an intimate company.)  
Nothing there.  

By evening I was in a frenzy. I drove my  
friends wild with conjecture: Would the  
company treat my charge with lofty disdain  
not even deigning to acknowledge it? Were  
they plotting some stunning reprisal? I  
awaited morning when I was called into my  
supervisor's office. He informed me in a  
choked tone that he had received a copy  

of the "suit". (From here on for the next  
year and a half, all company officials re-  
ferred to my charge as a "suit". This pe-  
culiarity of speech may or may not reveal  
something about the male human being.)  

My supervisor's eyes were not blank now.  
They were filled with hatred and something  
new: respect.  

‘Gold Flower" meeting will  
be at 4 p.m., Sunday, November 5, 1973,  
at 1901 Lyndale Ave. So., Apt. 6.  

“SEASON OF THE WITCH”  

"Season of the Witch," a festival “of, by  
and for women" will be held Saturday, Oct-  
ober 27, in Benton Hall at the Downtown  
YWCA, 1130 Nicollet Avenue.  

The festival will open at 3 p.m. and will  
feature workshops, seminars and a 9 p.m. to  
midnight concert/dance given by "Family of  
Woman" Lesbian/Feminist Musicians.  

"Family of Woman" is comprised of four Chi-  
cago-area women who have given concerts  
throughout the country. The group presents  
original women's music and engages in dia-  
logues with its audiences.  

One member noted "We are women playing to  
women; what we have to share is private and  
intimate and intended for women only."  

The festival is sponsored by Twin Cities Wo-  
men's Union, Lesbian Resource Center, Eliz-  
abeth Blackwell Women's Health Clinic (Wo-  

men's Counseling Service) and "Gold Flower".  

Tickets ($2.00 donation) are available at:  

Women's Counsel-  
ing Service, Room 208, 621 W. Lake St.,  
Mpls. 55408; Lesbian Resource Center, 710 W.  
22nd St., Mpls. 55408; University of Minn-  
esota Feminists, Room 203, Coffman Memorial  
Union; Amazon Bookstore, 808 W. Lake St.,  
and Twin Cities Women's Union, 3104-16th  
Ave. So. Tickets will also be available at  
the door.  

Po Fe EH WH HH KK HK HI HK I HK HK KI HK HK KKK KKK KK KKK  

children's books  
Feminist Literature Lending Library  

REVOLUTIONARY PETUNIAS & OTHER POEMS, Alice  
Walker. "These poems are about revolution-  
aries and lovers; and about the loss of com-  
passion, trust, and the ability to expand in  

love that marks the end of hopeful strat-  
egy—whether in love or revolution."  
Spy es ee  

THE REBEL GIRL: MY FIRST LIFE (1906-1926).  
The autobiography of Elizabeth Gurley Flynn  
is a personal account of her life as a la-  

bor activist:  
OS eg ae  

WOMEN & CHILD CARE IN CHINA, Ruth Sidel.  

“PEOPLE'S  
COMPANY  

1534 EAST LAKE  

PEOPLE'S FOOD SYSTEM  

***GOOD FOOD CHEAP***  

S.A.P. Foods, 1435 N. Cleveland, St.  
Paul, 646-9173.  

Selby Coop, 516 Selby Ave., St. Paul,  

t22Tm1AS3  

The Beanery, 3008 Lyndale Ave. So.,  
824-5161  

Mill City, 2550 Bloomington,  
721-2072  

Powderhorn, 3440 Bloomington,  
724-9681  

North Country, 2215 Riverside,  
338-3110  

Seward Coop, 2201 Franklin,  
331-8870  

Whole Foods, 2502 1st Ave. So.,  
824-3474  

Good Grits, 15th & Spruce, 339-5924  

People's Bakery, 1535 E. Lake,  
Tea 7205  

People's Warehouse, 205 11th Ave. So.  
341-3838  

NATURAL FOODS  
BREAD  

GRANOLA

IVES XO8 OD  
Y3SMO13 G109D  

Federal agents ran into two veri-  
table Amazons when they attempted  
to confiscate a still on a farm  
near St. Paul. The girls, Florence  
Friermuth, 15, and her sister, Mrs.  
Susie Friermuth Doffing, had to be  
disarmed, the raiders reported, be-  
fore the still could be seized.  

The girls' father, Alex Friermuth,  
was arrested as the operator of the  
"moonshine" plant. After unloading  
the guns, the agents permitted the  
girls to pose with their artillery.  

807SS NW SIdW  
NOILVLS LASYHLS SVT  

Caption under photo which appeared  

in the St. Paul Daily News. Photo  

from the Minnesota Historical Soci-  
ety.  

i  

TO GOLDFLOWER  

name  
address  
city / state  

GOLD FLOWER  
P.O. BOX 8341  
LAKE STREET STATION  
MPLS MN 55408  

aQivd  

eSortog *s “f  
zivu wins  

OO7ZZ "ON 3husag  
“uUuIy ‘sHOdeauuy

"Gold Flower." Gold Flower, Oct. 1973. Archives of Sexuality and  
Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/SXLEXE159537672/A  
HSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI.  

Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.