A residential street, a  
house screened by pine trees,  
a pleasantly decorated blue  
and white living room, femin-  
ist posters on the walls; I  
am immediately suspicious.  
I'm not supposed to feel at  
ease in an employment agency.  

The goals of Feminist For-  
mations are as disconcerting-  
ly healthy as their environ-  
ment. Their standards demand  
that they place skilled women  
in non-traditional, enjoyable  
temporary jobs that pay well.  
Too often, the three founders  
/counselors say, employment  
agencies push a person into  
any job at any pay scale.  
Rarely do they find a suita-  
ble position for an individu-  
al. Lynn McGuigan says they  
hope to place a woman in a  
job where "her potential will  
come out, not be stashed  
away."  

In order to do that, they  
must first ascertain what a  
woman's potentials are. They  
find that women often have a-  
bilities they don't know they  
have or experience that  
they undervalue. This is es-  
pecially true of women return-  
ing to the workforce after  
raising a family. A woman may  
not realize the validity of,  
for example, her community or-  
ganizing experience. She may  
be diffident about "selling  
herself." Feminist Forma-  
tions, as a go-between with  
the employer, can "sell" the  
employee, presenting her in a  
positive manner. "We don't  
have to tell the employer she  
did it without pay," says  
Carol Lee. They can play up  
her qualifications.  

WHAT’S IN A NAME?  

Once they determine what a  
client can do and what she  
would like to do, the next  
step is to find a job to fit  

EMPLOY  

Carol Lee, Lynn McGuigan,  

FEMINISTS FORMATION AGENCY  

and Kathleen Sarafolean  

her. This is not as impossi-  
ble as a search-weary woman  
may think. The counselors  
say people have asked them,  
"Isn't the name (Feminist For-  
mations) going to produce all  
kinds of cringes in the bus-  
iness community?" But they  
maintain the name actually  
saves them time. If an em-  
ployer is turned off by the  
name, they know immediately  
they won't want to place  
their clients there.  

Some firms are very open  
to Feminist Formations;  
Kathleen Sarafolean says  
they're beginning to realize  
they have to hire women, mak-  
ing this a good time to start  
an agency like theirs. Some  
companies are ignorant of the  
women's movement, but after  
talking with Feminist Forma-  
tions, accept their ideas.  
The women feel they further  
the women's movement by mak-  
ing these employers aware,  
and good relationships can u-  
sually be established with  
these first two types. Other  
companies are unmistakably  
anti-feminist. To these, the  
women simply respond, "Oh,  
I'm sorry you feel that way,"  
and leave.  

Bringing up the subject of  
feminism immediately with em-  
ployers is a fairly efficient  
screening method, but if it  
fails and a client feels she  
has been discriminated  
against, the counselors en-  
courage her to file a legal  
complaint against the company.  
"Oh, yes," says Sarafolean,  
"we have a stack of complaint  
forms a foot high."  

They provide other kinds  
of help for clients; if a wo-  
man decides she needs further  
training or education, Femin-  
ist Formations helps her sec-  
ure information about schools,  
admission requirements, loan  
applications, child care arr-  

decorating.  

THE FUTURE  

They feel that their work  
will also help women in the  
long run. "Like a bank that  
offers a new service," as the  
advantages become apparent,  
the concept will spread. As  
women begin to understand  
that they don't really have  
to accept low-paying, boring  
jobs, they will stop seeking  
that kind. As employers no-  
tice that women have varied  
skills and work well in non-  
traditional temporary jobs,  
they will hire more women.  

As employment agencies see  
the success of this approach  
to employment, more of them  
will adopt it.  

They also hope to raise  
the general pay scale for wo-  
men city-wide by decreasing  
the supply of women who must  
accept low-paying jobs.  

This employment agency is  
revolutionary even in non-fem-  
inist ways. The idea of em-  
ploying "professionals" on a  
free-lance or temporary basis  
is not widely practiced. The  
counselors feel that if more  
people worked temporarily,  
they wouldn't get so bored  
with their jobs since they'd  
be gone before the "honeymoon"  
was over.  

In the month and a half  
that the agency has been in  
operation, its largest areas  
of concentration and therefore  
success have been construction  
and the creative fields--wri-  
ting, advertising, interior  
decorating.  

Women like construction jobs  
because they pay more than "women's" jobs,  
and because, as Lee says,  
"Women are intrigued by the  
idea of spending the whole day  
outside in the sun." They  
like the physically strength-  
ening activity. Lee says they  
try to send women to construc-  
tion jobs in teams of at least  
two for mutual support in an  
emphatically male situation.  

WOMAN TO WOMAN  

The counselors would like  
to develop a service of suppl-  
ying feminists with feminists.  
For example, many women, they  
believe, would prefer to hire  
women to perform services  
such as plumbing, electrical  
work, accounting, etc. A wo-  
man who had one of these  

continued on page 3

The function of the Feminist Studio Workshop  
is to help women realize their potential as  
creative human beings. In order to do this,  
women must learn to connect with, to draw upon  
and validate their own experience. Through  
study and work women become conscious of their  
historical position as women and to understand  
the range of choices available in this decade.  

Well--I made you take time to  
look at what I saw and when  

you took time to really no-  
tice my flower you hung all  

your own associations with  
flowers on my flower and you  
write about my flowers as if  

I think and see what you  

think and see of the flower-- —  

and I don't. ; Ye /  

Not only is the workshop committed to the  
talent of each woman, but we ask each woman to  
extend herself into the community, and to  
commit her energy to changing those values  
that oppress women. We are exploring ways to  
make social change through the work we do. In  
order to encourage a society which is sensitive  
and responsive to the needs and contributions  
of women, the boundaries that have previously  
existed between art-related professions must  
merge. This results in an array of expressive  
choices previously unavailable and encourages  
a new kind of female creator, one who forms  

a self-definition more consistent with her own  
needs than the restricting professional defi-  
nitions of artist, designer, historian, critic,  
as those professions exist in male-dominated  
institutions. It is the intention of the  
Feminist Studio Workshop to develop artists,  
designers, art historians, critics and educa-  
tors who can translate their experience in the  
Workshop into viable alternative professional  
choices. We invite women in all the art-  
related fields to enter the Workshop and use  
our structure to create new choices for them-  
selves and other women.  

Behind us lies the patriarchal  
system; the private house,  
with its nullity, its immoral-  
ity, its hypocrisy, its ser-  
vility. Before us lies the  
public world, the profession-  
al system, with its posses-  
siveness, its jealousy, its  
pugnacity, its greed...  
The question we put to you  

is how can we enter the pro-  
fessions and yet remain  
civilized human beings ...  

Was  

Degree programs are available in art, art his-  
tory, design and feminist art education,  
through the International Community College.  
The two-year program can constitute either the  
last two years of undergraduate study or can  
be adapted to a two-year master's program de-  
pending on the level of the individual woman's  
development. The one-year Critique Program is  
available as an accelerated master's program  
for those women with or without a bachelor's  
degree who have demonstrated a high level of  
consciousness and achievement. Degree pro-  

grams, which cost considerably more than the  
tuition of the Feminist Studio Workshop, can  
be financed through time payment plans and  
loans which can be arranged through the Inter-  
national Community College.  

When a woman artist positively  
identifies herself to us  
through her work, she commits  

a courageous and daring act  

of self-exposure, because her  
contribution has neither spo-  

ken to nor been understood by  
the mainstream of the culture  
and the content of her art  
has been bypassed by inter-  

pretations which could reveal  
it. Thus a woman's saying,  
"I am, I know myself, and I  
feel a fundamental optimism--  
a grasp upon my own survival  
as a model for human survi-  
val," is saying something  
which challenges the prevail-  
ing worldview.  

To apply to the Feminist Studio Workshop,  
please prepare a statement which includes the  

following information: name, address, tele-  
phone number, educational background (institutions  

and degrees). Then indicate which of our  
programs is appropriate for you--First year,  
Second year, Critique--whether you are inter-  
ested in a degree program and if so, which one,  
B.A. or M.A. Then write a short description  
of what kind of work you are doing now, what  
experiences have caused you to want to be  
involved in the Feminist Studio Workshop and  
any other information which would allow us to  
know you, your needs, and expectations.  

Send your statement and examples of your work  
in slide or other appropriate form to the  
Feminist Studio Workshop, Woman's Building,  
743 South Grandview, Los Angeles, CA 90057.

If you are interested in any of the degree  
programs, write for information to the Inter-  
national Community College. Fill out their  
forms, and send with the Feminist Studio Work-  
shop statement and examples of your work to  
the International Community College, 1019  
Gayley, Westwood, CA. Once you are accepted  
by them, they will forward your application  
and work to us for our approval.  

For a brochure explaining in further detail the  
studies to be undertaken at the Workshop, write  
to the Feminist Studio Workshop address.  

I am going to work for the  
future which is sure to come,  
a future in which people will  
be seen as human beings, not  
as sexual stereotypes, when  
all human beings will know  
about the struggle of women  
to participate as full human  
beings, to contribute our  
gifts to the world. Until  
then I will try to make my  
art according to my precepts.  
I am committed to making art  
out of my experiences as a  
woman—making it available to  
as many women as I can, by  
finding ways to exhibit it so  
that many people can see it,  
by selling my work at low  
prices, by trying to build a  
female art community which  
has high standards and a  
broad base.  

ST. KATES OFFERS SUMMER  
WOMEN'S COURSES  

Women of all ages, occupa-  
tions and educational back-  
grounds are most welcome.  
The tuition charge is diff-  
erent from the auditing fee.  
To take these courses for  
credit, students pay the reg-  
ular summer school tuition  
fee of $90 per two-credit u-  
nit. Students auditing pay  
$60 per two-credit unit. New  
students who wish to take  
courses for credit are re-  
quired to pay a non-refund-  
able application fee of $10.  

This summer the College of  
St. Catherine is offering two  
sessions of three-week  
courses designed specifical-  
ly to help women discover  
their intellectual, social  
and creative potential by ex-  
ploring new areas of thought  
and action.  

The two sessions, during  
which courses will be off-  
ered in this program, run  
from June 19 to July 9 and  
from July 10 to July 31. Al-  
though the number of meetings  
each week varies with the  
course, all of the courses  
meet in the morning hours,  
either from 9 to 10:30 or  
from 10:45 to 12:15.  

If notice of cancellation is  
received by the end of the  
fifth day of class, June 26  
(or July 17), 75% of full  
tuition is granted. After  
the fifth day of class,  
there is no refund of tui-  
tion.  
For further information on  
the courses;  

contact:  

Included are the following  
courses: Advances in chem-  
istry, The French Woman, Wo-  
men—Contemporary Issues,  
Modern Mathematics: What and  
Why, Coping with the Mass  
Media, Public Speaking,  
Images of Woman in Art, Vir-  

Phyllis McAllister  
ginia Woolf: Prophet?  

Director of Summer  

Session  
The College of St.  
Catherine  

2004 Randolph Ave.  
St. Paul, MN 55105  

there is no obligation to  
take the courses for credit.  

My  
to  
to  
to  
to  

FEMINIST FORMATIONS  

continued from page 1  

skills and could support her-  
self from free-lance jobs  
would have a flexible, autono-  
mous occupation. In this way,  
both workers and customers  
could avoid dealing with an  
agent of the male establish-  
ment: a small step but an im-  
portant concept in creating  

a viable female culture.  

Finding good jobs for wo-  
men, raising employers' con-  
sciousnesses, helping women  
find training, raising the  
average pay scale for women,  
and bypassing male society  
are not the only things these  
women do.  

Every Thursday night they  
conduct workshops for clients  
and employers on topics such  
as "Employment in a Sexist  
Society," "Open Relation-  
ships," and "Relaxation  
through hypnosis and mind con-  
trol." They have offered a  
weekend retreat at a northern  
resort, focusing on employ-  
ment but also on "sisterhood,  
personal growth, development  
and relationships." They  
sponsor a course in astrology  
and a growing speakers bureau.  

All three women are rais-  
ing and supporting families.  
The cupboard runs a bit bare  
now in the beginning stages  
while they reinvest most of  
their profits in the business.  
But they worry more about  
fighting sexism than about  
where their next meal comes  
from. They take part-time  

jobs to keep themselves going,  
crack jokes about making one  
hotdog feed a family of four,  
and speak with confidence of  
the monumental changes they  
will make in society.  

hands keep wanting to open,  
drift like feathers on your back,  
hold your gaze between my palms,  
brood on your nape,  

pull your hips  

against me.  

I don't know how to think it is  
wrong  
that I keep wanting to open  

to you,  

like a door  

that goes on swinging in the wind  
open and shut  

wide and shut  

and wide again  

with unnecessary bangs.  

"Back and forth"  
—Marge Piercy

COME THE REVOLUTION!

A SUMMERTIME COMPENDIUM FOR ACTIVISTS

It's summertime and the Women's Movement is alive in the Twin Cities.  
The lilacs’ perfume and consider the catalogue of groups below.

Enjoy  
A brief

description of each group's activities and goals is included.

OPS

COMPILED BY MARY HASTINGS

WOMEN'S ADVOCATES: This St. Paul organization  
offers the following services: Attorney re-  
ferral, medical/health referral, employment  
referral, discrimination information, welfare  
referral, pro se name change aid, and legal  
information. The group has a Thursday rap  
group starting at 1 p.m.; for information on  
any of these call: 227-2504 or write:

P.O. Box 553  
St. Paul, Minn. 55102

MINNESOTA FEMINISTS: A feminist group for  
University of Minnesota students. The group  
has been involved in International Women's Day  
events and was instrumental in getting free  
pap smears and pregnancy tests at the Uni-  
versity's Health Service. Minnesota Feminists  
is dormant during the summer. For informa-  
tion, call: 373-0033 or write:

Coffman Memorial Union  
University of Minnesota  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55455  
Room 203. Ae

WOMEN'S INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE FOR PEACE &  
FREEDOM: This group, for men and women, serves  
as an educational forum and catalyst for in-  
ternational and national problems. Currently  
the group is writing to Senators before they  
vote on funding the Saigon regime. The group  
has been active in the Wounded Knee trial struggle.  
Volunteers are welcome; $10 annual dues.

Call: 870-9716, 9 - 12 Monday through Friday,  
or write:

1925 Nicollet Ave.  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55403

WOMEN'S CLEARING HOUSE: This is a women's  
news radio project, which broadcasts five-  
minute news programs Tuesdays and Fridays at  
6:20 p.m. on KUOM. Volunteers to write and  
broadcast news are welcome. Call 376-4984 on  
Tuesdays or Fridays, or write:

1507 University Ave. S.E.  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55455

MINNESOTA WOMEN'S POLITICAL CAUCUS (MWPC)

This 3 1/2 year-old group works to place more  
women in public office and to make women more  
effective in the political arena. This summer  
the organization will be involved in fund-  
raising activities. It will hold a Seneca  
Falls Festival, July 14, tickets $5.00. The  
group is also planning a tribute to State Rep.  
Helen McMillan for the near future. MWPC's  
minority caucus is very active. This summer  
it will be completing "census tracts" to dis-  
cover where the largest concentration of minorit-  
ies are, who is running for office, and who  
the organization should support for office. The  
minority caucus also plans to bring the U.S.'  
three black women mayors to the Twin Cities  
following this fall's primary elections. A  
conference will be planned around this event.  
The National Women's Political Caucus annual  
conference will be June 28-30 in Wichita, Kan-  
sas. MWPC will send delegates.

For information on any of the group's activi-  
ties, call: 225-0660 or 225-8194, or write:

P.O. Box 146  
St. Paul, Minn. 55102

Annual dues are $15.00 and cover local, state  
and national dues. Scholarship plans are  
available for those who cannot pay $15.00.

LESBIAN RESOURCE CENTER: The Center “offers  
an alternative to a bar" and a place where  
lesbian women can affirm and re-affirm their  
lifestyle as a legitimate, alternative life-  
style. Members stress LRC is a resource cen-  
ter; that is, the Center needs as much input  
from interested women as it dispenses to them.  
The Center offers:  

Counselors for one-to-one and couple  
counseling  

"The Lavender Cellar Theater"  
Continuing Rap Groups  

Softball team, canoeing trips and other  
camping activities.  

Any interested woman may attend the Wednesday  
night Community Meeting at 7:30 p.m., or call:  
374-2345 (if no answer, a recorded message will  
give hours and other information, or you can  
leave a message.)  

LRC is a non-profit, non-political group;  
Volunteers are welcome.  

WOMEN'S INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL CHANGE: The  
Institute's goal is to activate women into  
the community. To that end the Institute,  
which is in its fourth year, offers a course  
on effective community involvement. (This  
course is offered fall through spring. In  
fall 1974 the Institute will offer specific  
skills sessions, also, including lobbying,  
effective board membership, etc. The Insti-  
tute is "dormant" from June 15 - August 15.  
Present address and phone number are:  

1130 Nicollet Ave.  
Minneapolis, Minn. 332-3833  

Hours: 9 a.m. - 3 p.m., Monday through Friday  

WOMEN'S UNION: A socialist-feminist group.  
Among its projects (in addition to Women's  
School) are: Socialist-Feminist Study Group  
at 11 a.m. Sundays; Twin Cities Women's Gra-  
phics Collective--a group of women silkscreen  
artists who do posters, T-shirts and cards on  
commission and for sale; "Circle of The Witch"  
Feminist Theater, which offers Saturday aft-  
ernoon workshops for women at 1 p.m., 2448 -  
18th Ave. South, Minneapolis. (See Women's  
School listing, also.) The Women's Union has  
a lending library, which women may use during  
office hours-- 1 - 4 p.m., Monday, Thursday  
and Saturday.  

Address: 2953 Bloomington Ave. South  

Minneapolis, Minn.  
Telephone: 729-6200  
The Women's Union is holding a picnic-potluck  
June 10 in Powderhorn Park near the bandstand.  

(Bring food, frisbees, etc.; picnic to start  
at 6 p.m.)  

WOMEN'S SCHOOL: The Women's School is a pro-  
ject of The Twin Cities Women's Union. (See  
above.) Any woman interested in alternative  

education should contact The Women's School.  

This summer's major effort will be re-organ-  
ization of the School. Volunteers for a Work  
Group are needed. The School, of course, of-  
fers courses throughout the summer. Follow-  
ing are courses already in progress which will  
accept new members:  

Women and Religion  

Women's Studies Collective  

Saturday Afternoon Theater Workshop  
Literature Collective  

A new Poetry Collective will be convened by  
Coco Weber. If you wish to join the collec-  
tive, call Coco at 722-0783 after June 1. She  
would like to have the collective started by  
mid-June.  

Beginning Silkscreening, The Graphics  
Collective will also accept new mem-  
bers for the summer.  

Women have expressed interest in the follow-  
ing courses. If convenors come forward, these  
classes can also be offered:  

Drawing  

Self-Defense  

Auto and Bicycle Mechanics  
Video Workshop  

Chinese Brush Painting  

For information on any aspect of the School,  
call: The Women's Union, 729-6200; or  
Fluffy at 874-9597; Sue at 729-6942; or Kiki  
at 338-5367.  

The Women's School mailing address is:  

2953 Bloomington Ave. South  

Minneapolis, Minn. 55407  
Registration fees (very reasonable) are coll-  
ected at meetings of the various collectives.  

Donations are accepted.  

"GOLD FLOWER": A feminist, collective news-  
paper, which has published since November  
1971. "Gold Flower” encourages new members  
and contributors of writing or artwork.  

The paper practices freedom in publishing, has  
no censorship policies, no editors. "Gold  
Flower" may also take on other publishing ven-  
tures in the near future. Anyone interested  
in becoming a member or in contributing to the  
paper, call: Jan, 870-1395; Mary or Margaret  
at 378-1848; Susan at 338-6313 (evening hours  
best). Or write to:  

"Gold Flower"  

P.O. Box 8341  

Lake Street Station  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55408  

$4.00  
35 cents per copy.  

Yearly subscription:  
Newsstand price:  

(Meeting notices are posted in every "Gold  
Flower"; if you are interested, please attend.

MORE REVOLUTION continued from page 5

UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA WOMEN'S CENTER: The  
Center is under the auspices of the Office for  
Student Affairs. The Center offers educational,  
personal and career counseling with referral to  
specific agencies. A course, "Lifestyles of  
Educated American Women", is offered through  
the Center. It also arranges academic credit  
for student projects centered on women. The  
Women's Center houses a large resource  
collection, newspaper clipping and bibliography  
files, and it acts as a clearing house for  
discrimination complaints. The Center encourages  
volunteers and all its services are open to men.  
The Women's Center operates throughout the summer.  
Call: 373-3850, 8 to 4:30 p.m., Monday through  
Friday, or write:

306 Walter Library  
University of Minnesota  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55455  

ELIZABETH BLACKWELL WOMEN'S HEALTH CENTER:  
This group has a special emphasis on health  
care and self-help. The group offers peer  
counseling and can also refer to feminist  
counselors. A patient advocacy and physician  
referral group is in the formation stage.  
Elizabeth Blackwell will hold open houses June  
5, 12, 19 and 26 at 7:30 p.m. The next general  
meeting convenes at 8 p.m., June 6.  

Call: 335-2669, or write:

2000 South 5th St.  
Minneapolis, Minn.  

Interested individuals are encouraged to  
attend.  

WOMEN'S FILM COLLECTIVE: This group is comprised  
of 30 women from various professions, such as  
teaching, art, and media with skills in those  
areas. They have banded together to create a  
new image of women through the use of video,  
slides and 8 and 16 mm film. The Collective  
meets once a month on Saturdays  

at 1:30 p.m., at Experimental College, 1507  
University Ave. S.E., Minneapolis. (The next  
meeting will be June 7.) The Collective has  
films and slides for rent. For rental information  
call: Carol Winther, 644-1470.  

The Collective phone number: 473-2373  
Address: 3555 Hamilton Ave.  
Deephaven 55391  

MINNESOTA GAY WOMEN'S ALLIANCE: This group was  
formerly the gay professional women's group.  
The group offers a full calendar of social  
activities and programs throughout the summer.  
Special interest groups are forming to bring  
campers together with other campers. Among  

the group's special programs will be small  
group discussions on alcohol problems, gay  
relationships and a sexuality film.  

Call: Vicki at 789-1187 for specific information.  

LESBIAN ACTIVISTS: An independent political  
group that will work independently of "straight  
dominated feminist groups and of male-dominated  
gay groups". The Activists are helping to  
organize the women's half of Gay Pride Week  

(June 28-30). Any interested women should  
attend the Activists’ meetings at 5:30 p.m.  
Wednesdays at the Lesbian Resource Center, 710  
W. 24th St., Minneapolis.  

(Up-to-date information was not available on  
the following groups at publication time.)  

NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (NOW): This  
is one of the largest and oldest women's  
groups in the country. The Minneapolis group  
was very active in implementing a discrimination  
suit against General Mills. For information  
about NOW's summer schedule and future  
projects call: 920-4802 or write:

4566 So. Cedar Lake Rd.  
Minneapolis, Minn.  

(Information on dues will also be available  
at the above address.)  

TWIN CITIES WOMEN POETS: This group of women  
poets meets regularly for poetry readings and  
has been active in publishing ventures and  

in readings throughout the Twin Cities.  
Interested women should check next month's  
"Gold Flower" for current information on the  
group.  

The list of groups published in these pages  
is not exhaustive. Any group not mentioned  
should write "Gold Flower", P.O. Box 8341,  
Lake St. Station, Minneapolis 55408, and we  
will include information in subsequent issues.  
Hopefully, this compendium will be helpful to  
neophyte and experienced feminists, and to  
any woman needing medical, legal, welfare or  
employment aid or the emotional and psychological  
powers of sisterhood.  

“Gold Flower" Staff Members are: Jan Jirak,  
Shirley Heyer, Susan Cushman, Margaret  
Hastings, Mary Hastings, Char Masterman, Pat  
Monaghan, Sue Plaster, Mary Ellen Shaw, Jeanette  
Sullivan, Merry Urbia, Sandra Holtkamp,  
Kate Ligare, Coco Weber, Peggy Masterman, and  
Valleda.

BLACKWELL FORMS TASK FORCE

On April 2 a new task force of the Elizabeth  
Blackwell Women's Health Center, which is a  
women's health collective dealing mainly  
with educating women through self-help, lo-  
cated in the People's Center, was formed.  
This newly-organized task force is a patient  
advocacy and referral group.

A patient advocate for women is defined as a  
woman willing to accompany another woman to  
a health care facility in order to give her  
support. The group sees itself as mainly  
existing for being advocates for general ex-  
aminations and operations that are minor,  
such as menstrual extractions and vacuum  
aspirator-type abortions, at the moment.  
However, this will be extended as the group  
gains more experience.

Besides patient advocacy, the group is going  
to compile a complete list of referrals for  

the Women's Health Center, listing area doc-  
tors. By doing this, the group hopes to  

by COCO WEBER

supply women with more and better options  
and overall health care. At the moment, the  
are getting together an attitudinal form to  
distribute to the consumers or the patients  
on the quality of treatment they have re-  
ceived.

What is hoped will come out of this is a  
book in which is listed every doctor in the  
metropolitan area. It would also help to  
insure consumer control. The group has been  
contacting the doctors' offices by phone  

as to what their prices and attitudes are,  
what birth control methods they recommend,  
etc. This has not met with a favorable re-  
sponse, and, in some cases, the doctors are  
paranoid about the survey.

Coming out of this would also be patient  
rights. That is, watching legislation rela-  
ting to women's health needs and the bills  
concerning their rights.

continued on page 11

ACTIVITIES:

Friday, June 28

Workshops, 5:30-7 p.m., at LRC*  
Women Relating to Women, A  
Lesbian-Straight Dialogue  
Legal Rights

Supper, 7-8 p.m., at LRC  
Workshops, 8-9:30 p.m., at LRC  
Lesbians Only ~  
Is Bi-Sexuality A Viable  
Lifestyle

All-Woman's Dance, 9:30 p.m.

Saturday, June 29

Rally and Picnic, Loring Park,  
around noon

Pride March

All-Lesbian Dance, at Noble Roman,  
St. Paul, Saturday night

Sunday, June 30

All-Woman's Softball Tourney,  
Lake of the Isles, 12 noon

Open House at the LRC, 4-7 p.m.  
(with supper)

Open Poetry Reading & Music,  
7 p.m., at LRC

*the Lesbian Resource Center, Inc.  
(LRC), is located at 710 W. 22nd  
St., one block south of the Frank-  
lin/Lyndale intersection, to the  
right.

TO KATE.

"Device Piece for Walker-to Kate" has so  
many elements within it to talk about that I  
have opted for a brief description: as a  
means of encouraging all women out there to  
see the piece or at least be on the alert for  
other works by Carole Fischer, and then I shall  
devote myself to totally subjective feelings  
on the subject.

———

Materials used are brick, glass, red elastic  
and Kotex. As shown in the photo, the materials  
are either balanced or stretched over one an-  
other. Not evident in the photo is the soft  
breeze which plays over the lines of stretched  
elastic.

Now to the subjective area. Obvious vis-  
ual contrasts have been pointed out in other  
reviews; shiny glass against dull bricks, trans-  
parent alongside opaque, hard brick versus soft  
Kotex, etc. Simplistic observations which do  
little justice to the artist's efforts.

Similes and metaphors abound to further  
"explain" what is happening vis-à-vis the  
Walker's Invitation Catalogue: "...sheets of  
glass propped against a wall, with taut bands  
of elastic pinned beside them and stretched  
across the floor, allude to gossamer curtains  
on a drying frame."

Thus we are told that a work which is capable  
of evoking diverse memories and feelings; a  
work which understands the dynamic use of space  
and concrete “earthly” objects to draw us into  
the realm of abstraction essentially comes down  
to gossamer curtains. The woman's experience in  
art?

Carole Fisher with components far Device Piece Series

a review by Margaret Hastings

The catalogue continues. "For the first  
time socio-political statement is also intro-  
duced in her use of sanitary napkins as an in-  
tegral part of her construction." In a woman's  
life, Kotex, Tampax, et al. are hardly socio-  
political; they are necessities. It is the  
world's unhealthy reaction to them which brings  
into play the political element. It is also  
easier to dismiss such a reminder of women's  
bodily functions with political clichés than  
express honest reactions. If red elastic  
stretched full length conjures images of cur-  
tains then certainly the Kotex reminds us of  
menstruation.

Trying to tell you what "...-to Kate" is all  
about, what it reminds me of or its political  
intentions would be a bit pretentious. Its  
very strength lies in its unlimited implica-  
tions, ideas and visual imagery. Is the red  
elastic blood? Possibly. Does the glass sig-  
nify fragile prettiness or a sinister quality  
with its sharp cutting edges? Choose one, both  
or neither.

Carole Fisher has taken separate units  
and formed connections of movement, reflection,  
repetition, contradictions—all that stuff one  
learns in art schools. Through such connections  
common, identifiable objects merge into one  
another to express a world outside of their  
limited forms. Louise Nevelson does this in her  
works; good poets use words to the same end.

Gossamer curtains are only a small part of it.

Photo: David Thomag

NEW WOMEN’S  
SURVIVAL CATALOGUE  

NOW $4  
(reg $5)  

Device Piece for Walker—to Kate, 1974 (preliminary version)  

Under a sky the color of pea soup  
she is looking at her work growing  
away there  
actively, thickly like grapevines or  
pole beans  
as things grow in the real world,  
slowly enough.  
from To Be of Use  
by Marge Piercy  

STRESS REMAIN A PAPER NCEA  
PEOPLE'S FOOD SYSTEM  
Secor Soc. <rmnr?  

JSAP FOODS, 1435 N. Cleveland,  
St. Paul, 646-9173  

SELBY COOP, 516 Selby Ave.,  
St. Paul, 277-1453  

BEANERY, 3008 Lyndale So.,  
824-5161  

TO GOLDFLOWER  

MILL CITY, 2550 Bloomington, name  
721-2072  

POWDERHORN, 3440 Bloomington, address  
724-7681  

NORTH COUNTRY, 2215 Riverside, city / state  
338-3110  

SEWARD COOP, 2201 Franklin,  
331-8870  

WHOLE FOODS, 2502 1st Ave. So,  
824-3474  

GOOD GRITS, 15th & Spruce,  
339-5924  

PEOPLE'S BAKERY, 1535 E. Lake,  
721-7205  

PEOPLE'S WAREHOUSE, 205 11th  
Ave. So. 341-3838  

GOLD FLOWER  
P.O. BOX 8341  
LAKE STREET STATION  
MPLS MN 55408  

ee  

PEOPLE’S NATURAL FOODS  

BREAD  

COMPANY  

1534 EAST LAKE

THEY SAY THAT’S  
WHY WE'RE “i ERE by CHARLOTTE MASTERMAN  

We're sitting in a circle, the eight of us,  
so we can all see and hear each other. The  
brochure about consciousness raising groups  
told us people feel more like talking in a cir-  
cle; it's more intimate. But tonight, like  
always, anxious thrills shoot up my arms, and I  
don't feel any more like spilling what's inside  
me than I did last week or the week before.  
Shiela sits across from me, her eyes blankly  
staring through me. I don't think she'll say a  
thing tonight, either.  

Janet looks like she'll catapult right out of  
her chair if she doesn't talk. So she tells us  
what's hurting her. Her old man left her for  
another woman, she tells us. It blew her mind,  
and she got involved with a man. Now her kids  
despise her. But they still adore the old man.  
She thinks it's unfair. What hurts her most is  
when they call her slut and whore. The others  
try to comfort her with realities that exist  
for them, but not for Janet's kids.  

Maddening jitters begin to creep inside my  
skin when everything goes quiet. I think maybe  
I've had too much coffee today, but I know it's  
not the coffee. Janet's hurt starts mine up,  
and I want to talk and I don't. What's  
broiling under the surface scares the hell out  
of me. But Jennifer saves me having to decide  
if now's the time.  

I watch her as she speaks, and I wonder if  
she wouldn't be kind of pretty without her  
mouth all pinched together like it has a draw-  
string pulled through it. Her feelings spurt  
out like pop-gun fire. Her family's angry with  
her. Says she should snap out of whatever ails  
her, they're tired of her whining after app-  
reciation. Says they'd appreciate her more if  
she didn't constantly remind them. But I won-  
der about that. I wonder if they don't want  
her to shut up so they won't feel guilty. I  
wonder who's screwed up, her or them?  

Gracie pipes up in her wire thin voice, "He  
says I need help." She's always saying that,  
but she keeps the rest a secret. My jitters  
are going crazy now. My hair feels like it's  
crawling and I smooth it down hard with my  
palm. I look at Shiela staring at nothing, and  
I wonder where she is.  

I wonder, too, when we're going to get be-  
yond gut-spilling and start helping each other  
somehow. Maybe that's it. Maybe we don't know  
how. Or maybe all the poison has to come out  
first.  

Mellanie's voice booms out with its usual  
energy. She's different from the rest of us,  
not what you'd consider feminine. She's very  
tall and moves like a willow whip, graceful  
and all--but she's got a vibrance that makes  
her look aggressive even when she's sitting  
still. I don't think anyone will ever beat  
her down for long. Seems like she'd just boomerang no matter what.  

She's always been open, right from our first  
meeting. Listening, I wonder with a secret  
smile what tonight's revelation will bring.  

She tops off last week's episode by telling us  
about several suicide attempts. You may think,  
Aha! So they did get to her. But I'm not so  
sure. I wonder if that was Mellanie's way of  
saying, Okay, if there's no place for me and my  
way, screw all of you! She sighs and wears a  
wry smile, "Damned near made it last time, but  
my goddamned neighbor found me. I could have  
killed her."  

I envision Mellanie stretched out white and  
dead, her brown eyes lusterless, glaring, and  
something knifes at my insides. I wonder if I  
should tear back the thin tissue that covers  
the burning thing in my gut. I open my mouth,  
but the words won't come. Nobody notices be-  
cause Doris lets loose with a story of how she  
went berserk one day. She even gets me laugh-  
ing. I can picture sweet, docile Doris, who's  
too timid to ask for the salt at supper, hurt-  
ling everything in sight at this guy she's liv-  
ing with, a huge man with lead fists, and him  
peering stupidly at her. "He slapped me around  
afterward, but it was worth it," she relished,  
throwing her head back, cackling and slapping  
her knees, "oh, man was it worth it!" Her  
eyes widen and she leans forward, like the  
most important part is coming. “He was scared—  
scared—I could see it in his eyes, you know?  
And that . . . " she chuckles in between her  
words, ". . . that makes me .. . double over  
and . . . laugh, which makes him," she can hard-  
ly talk now she's laughing so hard, “even...  
even madder. He told me... told me I was...'  
nuts. Oh, my stomach . . . someone make me ...,  
stop:" . By now everyone is giggling loud and  
hard. Doris is holding her stomach, doubled up  
in her chair. When the laughing eases into  
softer, sighing spurts, Gracie chimes in with,  
"He says I need help." And everyone is sudd-  
enly quiet, like when you snap off a radio, and  
no one laughs at what Gracie says because she  

looks so forlorn.  

Silence creeps in through my pores and pushes  
out 'til I think my skin will burst into a  

million fragments. A warning roars through my  
brain, but I ignore it because it's too late—  
I hear a stranger's hollow voice and I realize  
it's mine ". . . in a commune .. . with lots  
of 'liberated' people—the men were at liberty  
to make all the rules and fight the important  
battles of society with their rhetoric while  
the women were at liberty to do all the shit  
work. Oh, it was equally divided between us."  
Everyone laughs. "At first we were like pio-  
neers, you know, making a new utopian society  
and all that, and we didn't complain 'cause our  
mission was so important. But after awhile,  
there were things that stuck out so you couldn't  
ignore them." My taut skin has little  
spasms, then relaxes a little, while I get my  
bearings. "We were privileged to gaze up into  

continued on page 11

continued from page 10

their bearded faces while they made all the  
important decisions, and we went along like  
sheep—and not one of them worked to speak of,  
only short part-time jobs, and every one of the  
women had work except for two who were pregnant  
and one girl who was sick a lot. Course, they  
were conducting the revolution," I say, and we  
all laugh at the picture of a bunch of guys  
sitting around jawing a revolution. "But the  
women ended up fighting among themselves, like  
we couldn't stick together because we seemed to  
be pitted against each other. Cuz it's always  
been that way? I don't know. I suppose we  
were scared because we thought we were depen-  
dent on them." I pause a minute so I can get  
something straight in my head, so they'll un-  
derstand. "That really got me, how we fought  
with each other and how really the men were de-  
pendent on us and we never saw that. But that  
wasn't the worst."

They're waiting now. Prickles run across my  
scalp. I fight to loosen my throat so I can  
talk. "Well... I got pregnant. And the  

guy I was living with... in the commune, you  
know, there were all couples... he has a fit,  
yells at me asking how I could let that hap-  
pen, and I say I didn't use artificial insem-  
ination, but he doesn't think that's funny,  
just stands there screaming at me. I say I  
want us to get out and live alone. He won't  
hear of it and when I push him about this he  
lets it out that he doesn't want to live with  
me any more, not anywhere. I ask him shouldn't  
he be responsible for his own child? Then he  
lays it on me..." I see his flushed,  
twisted face, ugly now, not beautiful like it  
was when I first knew him, and the burning in  
my stomach shoots up between my ribs. "He tells  
me it isn't his kid, and I don't know what to  
say I'm so shocked, I can't believe my ears. I  
ask him how he can even think that, and he says  
with all the men in the place how does he know,  
and I say with all the women in the place does  
that mean he's been playing around? And he  
won't answer, just sits there, starts his pout-  
ing."

I can't control my shivers now, nor my voice’  
erratic up and down swings, "I find out later  
he did get it on with several of the women—  
after all the love and honesty shit he spouted!  
I stuck with him 'cause I didn't know what else to  
do. I figured he'd have to want his kid once  
he was over the shock. But finding out about  
him and the others, that was too much. I con-  
front him with it and you won't believe what  
he says—he says ‘It's a free world, isn't it?'  
And that's the excuse he used to get out of  
claiming our baby, said he was free to accept  
or reject it, and besides, he still wasn't  
sure it was his. He says all these things and  
I can't believe anything's real, that I'm hear-  
ing all this, and I feel like I'm going nuts,  
everything I put my faith in believed in  
- + » all disappearing like the world is a mir-  
age and nothing solid... "My heart is  
drumming wildly in my ears. I'm sure they're  
going to pop. I don't see anyone in front of  
me, everything blurred, wavering, like in one  
of those horror house mirrors. I feel cold  
drops slip down the valley of my breasts. My  
ears ring and I hear someone screaming, "You  
lousy son of a bitch how can you reject your own  
baby? You! You say you cherish life and here  
you are trying to save a sick society and you  
can forget you made a life and what about  
that life?"

Everyone is gaping at me and I clam up and  
breathe hard to stop the beating in my ears.  
That crazy Gracie says, "He says I need help,"  
and I think I'm going to scream. But I wait  

holding my breath 'cause they're sitting there  
gawking at me, not unkindly, just the way  
people do when they're embarrassed.

I try to calm my voice but it tilts up, "Well  
when I have my baby they say I have to  
give it up."

Someone gasps, "Why?"

"Because I killed him." There, it's out now,  
the poison, and I can say it with a steel edge  
because now I'm empty inside and don't feel  
anything. "I stuck a knife in his gut. I did-  
n't think about it, just did it. And I'm not  
sure I wouldn't do it again, except I want my  
baby." I try to tell them after I get out of  
here I'll go to prison, but the words won't  
come. Instead I see him again—astonished,  
grasping spurting blood, rasping, "Bitch!  
Bitch!" These were his last words.

The lights blink, warning us it's time to  
break. We avoid each other's eyes. Doris takes  
Gracie's arm, leading her like you would a  
small child and they head for the hallway that  
leads to gray dormitories and iron cots.

I stay, because Sheila's trembling.  
I put my arms around her.  
She lays her head on my chest, whimpering.

I say, “I know, I know.  
It'll be all right." But I know it won't be  
all right. They've told her she'll never get  
out of here if she doesn't adjust. She's terr-  
ified of that, and I know she won't sleep and  
I'll sit up with her tonight.

Gracie's short soliloquy carried through the  
hallway—"He says I need help." Doris soothes  
her, "Sure, Gracie, I know. They say that's  
why we're here."

Copyright 1974

Blackwell cont’d, continued from page 7

Another aspect of the group is to gather in-  
formation regarding needed services and a-  
vailable training women can receive now and  
in the future and what is available outside  
Minneapolis. Here is included doctors doing  
research into new gynecological and O.B.  
techniques.

The two main groups of the task force are the  
advocacy and referral groups. The advocacy  
group is, at the present time, trying to  

find out which clinics in the area are favor-  
able to their cause and will allow them to  
accompany women while they are receiving  
treatment. They are concentrating mainly on  
menstrual extractions, vacuum aspirator  
abortions and D and C-type abortions, as far  
as accompanying women goes, until they have  
more expertise. There has already been a  
meeting with a counselor at the University  
of Minnesota Hospital's North Clinic, where  
abortions are performed. The response to  
advocacy there was favorable.

Though still in the process of becoming, the  
task force wishes to gain skills for itself  
in women's health care and learn how to  
share these skills and knowledge with other—  
women. For more information, or to volunteer  
information, call the Elizabeth Blackwell  
Women's Health Center, 335-7669.

It is also planned to match women in rap  
groups and on a one-to-one basis regarding  
similar experiences with health care. These  
groups would be a support-type facility.

12

MEMORY 2/4/74 Wendy Joan Knox

"In life there are no essentially major or

minor characters. To that extent,

all fic-

tion and biography, and most historiography

are a life.

hero of his own life story. Now,

Everyone is necessarily the
not only

are we the heroes of our own life stories--

we're the ones who conceive the story, and

EPITHALAMION

give other people the essences of minor

characters." --John Barth
A parade in a snowstorm

through a fish-eye lens

A house of many colors where

I place people

My wax museum

I shine my eye on them and
they relive the time

I saw

I animate them I costume them
I erase scars I putty noses
I record their voices

as I remember

as I

want

I unplug some exhibits
cover them with dropcloths
lock the doors

And some rooms

I lie in for hours

They are fur-lined igloos
the wind outside

Always I
believe what they tell me
what they have always told me

believe them far
far too much.

Wendy Joan Knox

Would it could it can it be leaving
the web behind us before

the end? How

is this time come about

so soon? Odd thought

that there would ever be

a grownup no-me mommy and a

your not-play house. This is
mending time making time

sowing binding meshing time of

one plus one equals one

times two I 

keep wanting three, take

the knife the blade

sharp, fear the cut the

end of twenty treehouse summers but
on

cut a leaf only, put it

safe in a cup to

root for you, to

grow in the new home, be

tended by her hands, your hands will
grow for

all of us for

you No more

mudpies

Mr. New Husband.

You taboo

yourself against me
making any feelings I may have about you
irreverent
or incestuous
in other words
inappropriately
out of place and
uncalled for
down

down

down

down 

get off my case

it's closed

NATASHA

———

for my brother & sister-in-law

&

IS  
i}

YAS  

= is .  

Ny  

‘  

Wi  

so  

x)  

Tow  
SS ae ——

13  

There is nothing  

the doctors can do  
it is uncontrollably out of their hands  
and their realm of experience  
her mother's vagina  
wants her back  
has decided to reclaim her  
in its damp darkness  
a shelter which she should have never left  
between the legs  
between the legs  
between the legs  
there is home  

NATASHA

BEING HAPPY  
IS REVOLUTIONARY  

by Jan Jirak  

Caravan Dance Collective has no director,  
the dancers do the administrative work them-  
selves, and teachers have been heard to say,  

"This is a collective. I can make mistakes."  
If this does not sound like a typical dance  
studio to you, you're right. It was formed  
precisely to avoid the hassles of “typical  
dance studios."  

For many Caravan members, it was a case of  
the art institution turning artists away from  
art. Sue Halloran, for example, had studied  
dance for many years, but stopped dancing be-  
cause of the competitiveness in traditional  
dance establishments. "Every time I got out on  
the dance floor, I felt tight and rigid," and  
finally developed ulcerative colitis. After  
teaching school for a short time, she found  
Caravan, and is now dancing, teaching dance,  
and choreographing again.  
"We don't try to make our bodies conform to  
some rigid standard," says Lois Weeks, who  
teaches belly dancing and body awareness. She  
feels that dance should explore the possibili-  
ties of the body.  

The dancers represent a wide variety of  
training and experience, ranging from Linda  
Shapiro who studied all technique with no im-  
provisation; to Halloran who studied only im-  
provisation. Their interests range from modern  
dance to East Indian dance to Afro-Jazz.  

Caravan says it is the community and schools." Usually this takes  
the form of dance classes held in their studio  
at 330 N. Prior in St. Paul and taught by mem-  
bers of the collective. But the collective al-  
so teaches classes to groups in the community.  
Usually these experiences add to the dancers'  
perceptions of dance. For example, Halloran  
and Dena taught a class at the Women's School.  
They found that almost all the women disliked  
some part of their bodies. They studied the  
movement of the bodies in different situations.  
They assumed aggressive and passive roles and  
found that roles affected how they moved.  

In Lois Weeks' body awareness class, stu-  
dents paired off to do relaxation exercises  
with each other. Weeks said the women were  

"What makes a bully?” from "Dancing Playground"  

very unwilling to touch each other, giggled,  
wouldn't concentrate. As Dena says, "You have  
to open yourself to be touched." Women are not  
trained for that in this society.  

Dance for children is a major focus at Cara-  
van. The major work the collective performed  
last year was "Dancing Playground."  

"Balloon Dance" from "Dancing Playground"  

explores every aspect of a playground from the  
physical objects ("Seesaw", "Merry-Go-Round")  
to dynamics in the group ("What makes a bully?" and  
space, time and energy (the three elements of  
dance), relationships between dance and language,  
dance and mathematics, and the related skills of  
reading, writing, and computing.”  

Some of the teachers also teach dance classes  
in elementary schools, exploring these same  
elements of movement. Elementary school teach-  
ers are often amazed at the concentration the  
children display in their approach to dance.  

Artistic commitment is intrinsically politi-  
cal for women. As women who take classes at  
Caravan become more committed to it, this be-  
comes a source of strife with their husbands.  
Diane Mostek recalls that it was OK with her  
husband for her to be dancing as long as it was  
a hobby, but when it became a commitment, he was  
opposed to it.  

Linda Shapiro sees the problem from a differ-  
ent angle. She finds that it is very important  
to her to be self-supporting. Now that she has  
stopped teaching and is dancing full-time, she  
wants to make Caravan a "going thing." "I don't  
want this to be my little plaything that he lets  
me do because it makes me happy."  

Several Caravan women are interested in ex-  
ploring the relationship between dance and their  
personal politics. They think, for one thing,  
that many of society's problems would be solved  
if people felt freer with their bodies. In  
other words, if you're not uptight about your  
body, you're less likely to be uptight about  
other things. They believe that a person who  
is “uncentered"—physically, emotionally, spir-  
itually—can be dangerous if in a position of  
power; and that there are a lot of uncentered  
people in power.  

"Anyway," said one member, "dance makes you  
happy—and being happy is revolutionary."  

"Mr. Temptation" Its purpose is to "explore

UNION WOMEN

The Coalition of Labor Union Women (CLUW) was
formed in Chicago in March 1974. CLUW's pur-
poses are to pursue political and legislative
action in the workplace and stronger representation
of women in union leadership. A CLUW organ-
izational meeting will be held June 6 at

7:30 p.m. at the United Electrical Hall,

3039 Central Ave. N.E. in Minneapolis. This
will be an opportunity for Twin Cities women
to learn about the Chicago convention and to
discuss issues concerning union women. All
bona fide union women are urged to attend.

SELF-HELP
COUNSELING

EDUCATION INFORMATION
HEALTH ACTION

PATIENT ADVOCACY

office hours | m-F 10-5
Peoples Center | 20ce $, 5th St.
335-7069

ASSOCIATION

YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO TO CALIFORNIA TO
LEARN HOW TO DO YOUR OWN DIVORCE.

Right here in Minnesota, over 400
people last year divorced themselves
without the use of lawyers and saved
themselves over $150,000.

If your marriage is dead and you're
about to get a divorce, call on us and
learn how to bury your dead marriage as
quietly as possible. You owe it to
your children and yourself to get back
to the business of living as quickly as
possible, by either saving your mar-
riage or separating peaceably.

DIVORCE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION

CALL 926-4003 -- 24 hours

DIVORCE EDUCATION

A non-profit association, not a business.

GOLDFLOWER

The next "Gold Flower" meeting will be at

2 p.m., Sunday, June 10 at 1011 - 27th Ave. SE
Minneapolis, Minn. (call: 378-1848, after
6:30 p.m.). Any interested person and all
staff members should attend.

The deadline for non-staff art and writing
contributions is June 15. Please mail to:
P.O. Box 8341, Lake St. Station, Mpls., Mn.
55408.

This publication is on file at the Internat-

ional Women's History Archive, 2325 Oak St.,

Berkeley, CA 94708. It is also available on

microfilm through Bell and Howell, Drawer "E"
Wooster, Ohio.

“Same-Ner Workshop

Now Supplying & Contracting
Temporary Work Assignments
721-5546

Be a
Feminist + literate

+ a Seba irh UN2. book.

2003 bron

“€Z sung nay (¢ AzeT  
-Te5) AeQUaD AAW TaeyxTeM SYR 4e Uses aq  
Xeul YIOM TOH *SUTAeYReD *3Sg Fo ebeTToo  
e4y Fe TOPONAASUT ue ST “TSYUSTY sToIRD  

MN 55408  

"""39A09 94} UO  

GOLD FLOWER  

P.O. BOX 8341  
LAKE STREET STATION  

MPLS

"Gold Flower." Gold Flower, June 1974. Archives of Sexuality and  
Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/PZRUKG689847714/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI.  
Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.