IMPORTANT: Process the ENTIRE text from beginning to end. Do not stop early or truncate.

Rules:
1. Fix obvious OCR errors (like '0' instead of 'O', '1' instead of 'l')
2. Preserve the original line breaks and text blocks.
3. Preserve the original meaning and historical context
4. Do not add any additional text
5. Do not delete any text unless correcting an obvious error
6. Process EVERY line - do not skip any content

Original OCR text:
:
3
:
©

vol

nov/dec 1973



Corrected text:
:
3
:
©

vol

nov/dec 1973

THE RAPE

(We would NEVER have caught  
him had we gone by YOUR de-  
scription said my Male De-  
fender contemptuously to me.  
after I pointed him out when  
he had, by coincidence, walked  
into the police station when  
I was there. To report his  
stolen car, which was not  
really stolen, but had been  
smashed up by his drunken  
buddy while he was raping me,  
but he wanted the insurance  
money so he had to say it was  
stolen. You would never have  
caught him anyway because you  
were not interested in catch-  
ing him. I know. I gave you  
his address and phone number  
and name. And when I came to  
the station a day later you  
had done NOTHING NOTHING  
NOTHING NOTHING NOTHING NOTH-  
ING.)

We were sitting in the Dist-  
rict Attorney's office, Los  
Angeles, California, because  
of my rape. And the question  
in MY mind was: will my rap-  
ist be prosecuted or won't he  
be prosecuted? But the ques-  
tion in HIS mind was: "WHAT  
DO YOUR PARENTS THINK OF  

YOUR LESBIAN TENDENCIES?"

(My male defender who let my  
rapist walk free.)

Because: 1) You were hitch-  
hiking.

On a bright, sunny day to a  
National Lesbian Conference.  
"Why were you hitch-hiking?  
#1 QUESTION OF DIRE IMPORT-  
ANCE when being interrogated  
by the local, helpful, con-  
cerned, patriotic, protective  
pigs.

eves."

("Well," said the civil att-  
orney after the state had let  
the rapist walk out a free  
man, “What did you EXPECT?"  
Just FLAUNTING your gayness  
at them! You were just egg-  
ing them on! They were prob-  
ably trying to straighten you  
out, heh, heh.")

(I did not have a car and my  
motorcycle was in another  
state and I didn't have money  
to buy a bike and the walk  
was a good thirty miles,  
that's why.)

Faulty Memory?

"About how much did they  
weigh?"

(I bet you wish YOU could. Heh  
heh.)

"Didn't you think it was a  
little dangerous to do?"

"I don't know. I was never  
good at estimating heights  
or weights."

"Uh, yes... I heard about it  
on the television--that, uh,  
conference, interesting, most  
of the time, you know, we  
hear about those kind of men.

(The thought NEVER crossed my  
mind. Because usually women  
pick up women hitch-hikers,  
certainly not: Men-Who-Are-On  
The-Make. And who was to  
guess that I would be one of  
the women who is raped every  
14 minutes in this grand old  
united states of amerika? A  
little dangerous? Heavens,  
no. Women are never raped.)

(Your description was totally  
off. He's 6'2" and weighs  
170 pounds. Stupid woman.  
Addle-brained. Flighty idiot  
idiots.)

(Yes, yes, a pity isn't it,  

to hear only about the MALE  

pervert, female perverts are  
so much more intriguing. To  
the Man, anyway.)

On with the  
interrogation

(How long, how long, how long  
will this last? My sisters  
are waiting outside for me  
and I do not want to think a-  
bout sucking his dick and  
lying beneath him. I want to  
be with my sisters who you  
would not let into this off-  
ice with me because--I don't  
know... you never gave a rea-  
son... you never have to...)

(But I DID memorize the house  
number and street where they  
took me and got his phone  

number and address. And a  

description of the car. Well  
just the color... I don't know  
what kind it is.)

(I did want to get to the con-  
ference, though.)

‘Where were you going?"

"To the National Lesbian Con-  
ference."

Because: 2) You didn't  
resist.

"You mean to tell me you  
didn't resist at ALL? And  
they had no gun, no knife?  
You just followed their ord-  
ers?"

Pause. Pause. Pause. He  
lifts his eyes.

Very softly. "Are you a les-  
bian?"

"Two BLACK men picked you up?  
Why, then, weren't you sus-  
picious from the start?"

(They weren't eating water-  
melon.)

"Can you give me a descrip-  
tion of them?"

(I just SAID they were Black.)

"Well, one was pure BLACK and  
the other was a lighter shade.  
One had a suit on and was a-  
bout 5'6" and the other was  
about 5'8".)

Rape; cont.

"Yes."

(6'2". 170 pounds. I only
weighed 110 pounds and I was
only five feet tall. No ex-
cuse. No excuse AT ALL.
Isn't your virginity more val-
uable than your life?)

(No)
Resistance
"you made no efforts at all

to resist?"

"No. I just said I didn't
want to do it."

(No, I don't want to do it.
I'm a lesbian. I don't sleep
with just anyone. No, I
don't dig intercourse. I
don't believe in paying you
for my ride. Least of all,
a good fuck. No, I don't
wish to do it. No..." DO YOU
WANT YOUR ASS KICKED IN OR
YOUR HEAD SMASHED? DO YOU
DIG WHAT I'M SAYING?" Yes.
Yes. In fact I do. - "THEN
TAKE OFF YOUR CLOTHES. TAKE
THEM ALL OFF." O.K. O.K...
(Crooks 3)

"What position were you in
when you were lying on the
bed?"

(Standing on my head.
Lesbians do it different.)

We lesbians

"Who took off your underpants,
you or him?" Did he make a
full thrust? Did he come?
What did he say while he was
doing it? What did you say?"

(I groaned with sheer delight.
Secretly, and I tell you this
in utmost confidence; I want-
ed to be raped.)

My Word and His

Because: 3) All we have
is your word against his.

(His and yours and the male
judge and the male prosecu-
tor and the male defendant
and the male jury and the
male lawyers and THE MALE.)

"I would have advised any wo-
man in your position to do
exactly the same thing you
did," said the assistant to
the District Attorney. Who
was a woman. Who took the

Who was, again, The Man. Who
said: WHY WAS SHE HITCH-
HIKING?

Because: 4) You can't
expect the state to pay
your fare here to testify
against him with such a
flimsy case as this.

He opened the door of the pig
station and let me walk out.

"You realize I did all I
could.
District Attorney, and he de-
cided against prosecuting."

case to the District Attorney.

It was up to the Dis-

(Pontius Pilate speaks again.

He walked up one flight of
stairs and unlocked the door
of my rapist's cell.

To Kill

(Fantasies of murder. Never
before. Never before. Nev-
er before. I am a NON-VIO-
LENT person.)

"You shouldn't stab somebody
just 'cuz they want a little
piece."

(The knife. Opening and clo-
sing in my sweating palm)

"You want your ass kicked or
your head smashed in?"

(Stabbing The Man over and o-
ver in my mind. The pressure
of my fingers opening, clo-
sing the knife. To kill. or
maim. Who cares. You told
me, you told me, you told me,
you wouldn't hurt me. With
your price going deeper and
deeper. HURTING. Suffoca-
ting, entrapped under your
bulk.)

"You shouldn't stab somebody
just because they want a lit-
tle piece."

(Check it out. Think you have
V.D.? Had any sexual con-
tact lately? No. Oh...yeah.
The Rape. How many side ef-
fects?)

(After "making love" with a
sister. Wondering why the
shitty, hopeless feeling in-
side of me afterwards. Flash
of insight. This is exactly
the same feeling that I had
after The Rape: How long to
haunt me. Think you'll be
able to be touched again
without feeling like you're
being raped? Who cares.)

"You shouldn't just stab some-
body 'cuz they want a little
piece."

(Trying to think of right

and wrong as his menacing
eyes appraise my naked body
and violence and non-violence
as he says WANT YOUR ASS
KICKED OR YOUR HEAD SMASHED
IN and effective and non-ef-
fective as he whispers DIG
what I'm saying with the
knife now opening and closing
in my hand ready to slash

his throat.)

Both December our scheduled

Women’s
Clearinghouse

Women's Clearinghouse began
in January 1972 with a twice-
weekly five-minute news broad-
cast on KUOM Radio (770-AM),
covering issues of concern to
women. We have come togeth-
er under the credo that con-
munications in all forms is
vital to the purposes and
goals of the women's move-
ment. In addition to our
regular broadcast, we also o-
ccasionally produce radio
specials with a particular
focus on some aspect of wom-
en's lives, either of current
pertinence or of significance
in women's history.

We are a small volunteer
group (generally 4-6 women),
and have come from an assort-
ment of backgrounds and
groups, bringing a variety of
talents. None have had for-
mal broadcasting education
but gain radio skills through
the experience of Women's
Clearinghouse. We do not
have a hierarchy of responsi-
bilities, thus each member
may expect to gain skills in
announcing, script-writing,
interviewing, operating equip-
ment, etc. Experimental Col-
lege has donated office space
to us at 1507 University Ave.
Bubs

Our broadcasts are aired Tues-
day and Friday.* If you have
any information you would

like to share with area women
or if you'd like more informa-
tion about us, contact us at
373-9906.

*following the evening news
on KUOM (770-AM). The month

time is 4:30 p.m. in January
that will change to 4:20 p.m.

Women’s Magazines: A Cursory Review

Time was, about a year ago, when every-
thing would stop once the newest issue of Ms.
magazine hit the supermarket magazine rack.
Projects, work, and plans for the day were
all pushed aside until the magazine had been

read cover to cover. 

But things change. And so do people.

Many of my friends are finding Ms. less in-
teresting this fall. Is the magazine fading,
or are we just finding other forums for
feminist debates? Are other magazines pick-
ing up the cause? Do new magazines like
Playgirl and New Woman have any implications
for the women's movement? And are the old
newsstand (un)reliables to be trusted any
more than before?

New Woman competes well with Ms. from the
looks of the cover. But there the similarity
ends. While the flashy headline "What About
POW Wives?" on the cover of Ms. belies a more

serious article within, "The Three Faces of
the Single Parent" on the cover of New

Woman leads to little more than scant copy
and photographs of a fashionable bleached
blonde running through parks with her kids
and standing in the moonlight on the shore
of Lake Michigan with her lover. Topics that
deserve in-depth treatment ("Why Women Go
Winky-Wonky Over Homosexual Men") are given
a flip review which is more infuriating than
disappointing. Columns for the trendy hos-
tess on "What's In and Out in Food" are more
boring than most, and reprints from Reader's
Digest about "How a (Female) High School
Dropout Built a Business That Does More Than
$150 Million a Year" simply do not interest
me. But the main quality which makes New
Woman by far the most offensive women's maga-
zine on the market is its guise of not only
showing a very glamorous swinging lifestyle
which is as unrealistic as ever, but daring
to call it that of the "new woman." Heaven
forbid.

A Pleasant Relief

A new crop of magazines dealing with the
life of single persons is encouraging and
generally aimed at both sexes. Singles is
written for the swinging crowd with neither
the pretensions nor pocketbooks of the Playboy
crew. Although it promotes a classic stereo-
type of dating and socialization on the way
to marriage, it is no more condescending to
women than it is to men. Single (without the
"s") has a few shallow articles, but attempts
to confront the subject of living alone more
realistically than any other periodical. For
one thing, it accepts the situation as being
normal and even desirable for most adults at
some stage in their lives. Articles like
"Why Should Singles Pay 20% More in Taxes?",
"Sex When You're Alone," and a story on the
National Organization for Non-Parents raise
some important questions, but unfortunately
gloss over the answers. The magazine simply
lacks sufficient depth in its reporting.
Although its bias is clearly towards the
"unmarried, divorced, widowed and unattached"
of either sex, it also reflects positively
on the female single which is a pleasant
relief.

The Playful Penis

For people who get off on penises bathed
in red-gold light, Playgirl, Viva, Venus
and a good slug of companion magazines are
stylishly filling a void of sorts in the
pornographic world. At least women now have
the chance to participate legitimately in

by Kate Ligare

the drugstore ritual of paging through maga-
zine racks with all the nonchalance one can
muster. If you're curious, you won't be dis-
appointed.

Playgirl has a four-page fully phallic
foldout which is stunning, although the man
looks about as comfortable as the cougar on
top of the Lincoln-Mercury sign. The lucky
lad who is the “Discovery of the Month" is
pictured building a house in the nude. His
body looked fine, but an electric saw and
sawdust are not my idea of the most erotic
things in the world. Viva's editor, Bob
Guiccone, declares that "Viva will be a
woman, my kind of woman," and the same trend
continues through all of these male-edited
and produced pornographic magazines for
women. I found myself flipping through a 15
page color erotic version of an Elvira Madi-
gan picnic with the same detached fascination
I used to have when I looked at Playboy; I
wanted to see what kind of body they thought
was sexy and what kind of photography they
thought was erotic. But as far as arousing
my sexual desire in Woolworth's, Playgirl
and friends have a long way to go.

The Pornographic Ultimate

Far more pornographic for women in a cer-
tain sense are the stories in Good House-
keeping, Ladies' Home Journal, and McCall's.

The exact female counterpart to the stereo-
typed "pulsing virile man beating his way
into the woman and driving her into fits of
ecstasy and sobbing relief" is to be found
in the sweet stories of dreams at the kitchen
sink as "petite, blue-eyed Angie watched Jim
come home from the office and remembered
their first date at the beach and how hand-
some he was that Christmas, and how proud
she was to be his girl." Unfortunately,
little has changed.

Hairdos, diets, recipes, do-it-yourself-
budget-decorating, and unreal fashions that
are guaranteed to make you feel hopelessly
dumpy and unattractive still fill the pages
of all the traditional women's magazines.
Sophia Loren, Elizabeth Taylor, and Pat Nixon
are still on the cover, "The World's Most
Famous Hairdresser (male) Talks About the
World's Most Famous Women" inside, and one
column on the "Working Woman" by Letty
Cottin Pogrebin of Ms. does little to stem
the tide. Women's lib is a curio like yoga,
but husband, children, and home still come
first. The only commendable thing about
these magazines is that they are consistent
and they deliver exactly what they promise.

Fluff Holding at 20%

Ditto for fashion magazines. Ditto for
high school and college magazines for fe-
males. (The New Ingenue still advocates the
virtues of being an ingenue.) Ditto for
needlework and craft magazines which refuse
to respect the craft that they are promoting.
Ditto for bridal magazines. And baby
magazines.

Women's magazines and those with a female
orientation are one of the largest topical
sub-groups of magazines in the country.
Nearly one out of five popular magazines
carried in the Minneapolis Public Library
Branch system are for women. However, with
one exception (Ms.), obviously none are meant
to be taken at all seriously. Certainly
nowhere near 20% of the entries in the
Reader's Guide to Periodical Literature are

from women's magazines.

continued on page 9

Another Slice of P.I.

Halfway House Helps

By Merry Urbia

Shakopee Women Get Just Desserts

Women in our prisons face
many problems today, not
the least of which is that
the general public remains
unaware of female offenders
and the ineffectiveness of
most of the rehabilitation
offered them. A promising
answer to this complicated
situation may be as simple
as P.I. (in this case a Twin
Cities group called Project
Interaction).
Springing from an Indian
culture class led by Dorothy
Anderson and Molly Ramon at
Minn. Women's Correctional
Institute at Shakopee, a
weekly discussion group was
formed which was open to all
inmates. As more volunteers
became interested, an uncen-
sored newsletter was started
to allow inmates feedback
into the community and a bou-
tique opened so women could
wear regular clothes rather
than uniforms. Legal aid, vo-
cational and personal assis-
tance was made available,
and Project Interaction was
incorporated into a nonpro-
fit organization composed of
both inmates and volun-
teers dedicated to the con-
cept of community correction.
Community corrections—not a
term that means much to most
of us not directly involved
with the prison system; but
to the women of Shakopee
prison and those who are hel-
ping them rediscover their
potential through Project
Interaction it can mean sig-
nificant change in their
lives both in and out of the
institution. It means a grass
roots movement that allows
ordinary citizens to provide
much needed, no strings at-
tached help to people in our
prisons, and a chance for in-
mates to develop useful per-
sonal and professional skills
within the community they
face in the future.

One of the most promising
examples of this kind of pro-
gram is Project Interaction's
halfway house for the women
of Shakopee; the only one in
Minnesota, and one of only
nine in the entire country
for women. Although statis-
tical studies in the state
indicate the first ninety
days of re-entry into society
are the most critical for re-
adjustment, most women find
themselves left unprepared
by a correctional system
which has encouraged only
regimentation and alienation
from the community—traits
convenient for prisoners
but not for free functioning
adults. In response to such
a situation, Pi House was
organized with an emphasis
on individual needs and
community interaction.
Operating since January of
1973, at 581 Portland Ave.
in St. Paul, Pi House re-
cently had its open house
to show the community the
results of work by staff,
residents and volunteers
restoring an old three-
story brick house to a cot-
fortable place with a capa-
city of 14 residents.

Through individual and
group counseling, resource
referrals (job, education,
cultural, special treat-
ment) and in-house programs
Pi House deals with three
main areas of concern:
rehabilitation—geared to
positive decision making,
getting residents aware of
their own potential,
individualized program—to
re-establish family-commu-
nity ties and speed tran-
sition back into society,
release—helping people re-
gain personal autonomy, suc-
ceed in establishing inde-
pendence.

Most often these are impli-
mented through a contract
between a resident and Pi
House, specifying personal
commitments and general
rules. Infractions usually
result in loss of privileges
but specific cases are de-
pendent on the judgment of
the counselor assigned. All
residents are required to
attend regular house meet-
ings and report to their
house counselor and parole
officer at scheduled times.
Each resident prepares her
own lunch and breakfast and
is on a rotating schedule
of tasks helping with the
evening meal at which every-
one eats together. Learning
experiences in food prepa-
ration, family planning, bud-
geting and child care are
emphasized within the house,
as a practical consideration
not reinforcement of a fem-
inine stereotyped role. Res-
idents are generally unre-
stricted as to the outside
organizations and groups that
they can take part in, and
may have their children in
for short stays at the house.

It is hoped that the combi-
nation of an individualized
program with a home-like
supportive situation will
result not only in social-
vocational goals but the
development of self-esteem
and personal independence
as well.

Women living at Pi House
are generally young, (the
oldest has been 34), many
have children. To get there
they must be eligible for
parole, go through several
interviews at the prison
and may arrange a pre-
release visit to see if Pi
House is for them.

While the final decision is
up to the parole board,
the halfway house itself
is funded through a State
Crime Commission grant, the
program itself is not organ-
ized by the Minnesota Depart-
ment of Corrections. "The
Corrections Department
doesn't dictate policy at
Pi House," stressed Wanda
Beale, Assistant Director
of the house. Project

Pi House cont.

Interaction, which created  
the program is a non-profit  
group concerned with "encouraging innovative solutions  
and is dependent on private  
donations and community  
support.

If women living in a sexist  
society face day-to-day prob  
lems that are hard to over-  
come, it is even harder for  
those who are re-entering  

it from a prison situation.  
Ms. Beale, who is a former  
head of Minn. Women's Polit-  

ical Caucus, feels that the  
rights and problems of wo-  
men inmates are generally  
overlooked by the feminist  
movement and this must  
change. I agree. It's per-  
haps one of the best examples  
of how standing up for your  
sisters is important for the  
good of society as a whole,  
as well as for the progress  
of women in society.

If you wish to help, there  
are several areas that need  
volunteers—especially people  

who can escort inmates on  
trips out of Shakopee and  
offer skills or friendship.  
Fundraisers are also wel-  

come; donations of clothing  
for the boutique can be left  
at Pi House.

“We are trying to get things  
to happen in a real way,"  
commented Ms. Beale. But  
that only happens when peo-  
ple reach out to people in  

a real way—not just through  
talk, but action.

For more information, con-  
tact: Project Interaction,  
Box 24021 Minneapolis, Min.  
or, Pi House 581 Portland  
Ave. St. Paul  

phone: 227-0623  

RESOURCES  

New Vocation  

MINNEAPOLIS: New Vocations  
Project, 2314 Elliot Ave. So.  
55404; (612) 335-2424; is a  
resource center for persons  
trying to create non-alienat-  
ing work situations. Most of  
their energy is directed to-  
wards efforts that foster  
community self-direction in  
Southside Minneapolis, but  
they are prepared to consider  
helping groups in other areas.  
Resources include experience  
in organizing community-or-  
iented businesses, in voca-  
tional counseling, and in pub-  
lishing.  
New Vocations Project (2314  
Elliot Ave. So., Mpls) has  
published its first special  
resource catalogue—a Vo-  
cational Skills Training Dir-  
ectory. Besides having a  
complete listing of skills  
training programs in the  
Metro Area, with costs and  
qualifications, it has three  
different evaluations of  
skills training from people  
who have gone through it, as  
well as helpful articles on  
how to evaluate a school and  
your vocational needs. Sug-  
gestions on how to develop  
your own work situation,  
using your skills in the  
community, etc.  
New Vocations will also be  
publishing a new quarterly  
magazine providing “tools  
and strategies for neighbor-  
hood self-determination.”  
The magazine will be similar in  
format to their old publica-  
tions catalogue. The new  
magazine is called Common  
Ground and should appear in  
January.  
Those wishing to help with  
the magazine or wanting more  
information, vocational  
counseling, etc., write to  
the above address, or call  

Learn Me, selling non-sexist  
books and games, at 642 Grand  
Ave., St. Paul,  
a new shop that should be of  
interest to adults and child-  
ren alike. A sampling of  
some of their products in-  
cludes: Robot—a takeoff of  
the card game "Old Maid”  

with a machine as the losing  
card instead of a spinster.  
Community Helpers—collections  
of photos of women in  

non-traditional working roles,  

milkman, mechanic, veterinarian,  

etc. For use on bulletin  
boards, wall display.  
Yellow Pages of Learning  
Sources—Where to look, What  
to look for in using the com-  
munity as an education source—  
many varied coloring books,  
stories, educational materi-  
als with non-sexist and femin-  
ist approach.

For customers with small  
children, there is a play cor-  
ner in the back of the store  
to give them something to do  
while you shop. It's a color-  
ful, fun place with a seri-  
ous intent. Go see.

“Season of  
the Witch”

"Season of the Witch," a fes-  

tival "of, by and for women,"  
will be held Saturday, Decem-  
ber 15, in Benton Hall at the  
Downtown YWCA, 1130 Nicollet  
Avenue.

The festival will open at  

3 p.m. and will feature work-  
shops, seminars, and a 9 p.m.  
to midnight concert/dance  
given by "Family of Woman"  
Lesbian/Feminist Musicians.

The festival is sponsored by  
four Twin Cities women's  
groups. Tickets ($2.00 dona-  
tion) will be available at the  
door. For advance tickets  
Call: 827-2345.

Women’s Studies Dot Minneapolis  
High School English Curricula  

Ars Reveal Sexism  

"This is the most exciting  
course I have ever taught,"  
said Martha Harris, an Eng-  
lish teacher at South High in  
Minneapolis. The class is  
called "Man/Woman." Its pur-  
pose was to examine male-fe-  
male relationships, roles,  
and attitudes expressed in  
various literary forms. It  
was a sexually mixed class,  
though women outnumbered men  
three to one.  

To promote understanding a-  
mong the students, Harris us-  
ed consciousness-raising exer-  
cises prescribed by the Emma  
Willard Task Force on sexism  
in education. For example,  
she asked the class to com-  
plete the sentence(s), "I  
would (not) like to be a wo-  
man (man) because..." This  
exercise revealed that the stu-  
dents held traditional views  
of sexual roles: I would not  
like to be a man because men  
have to be tough and support  
a family, or I would like to  
be a woman because they are  
soft and expressive.  

Another exercise was to com-  
pare derogatory slang words  
for women and men. The list  
for men was noticeably short-  
er. Harris reports that this  
exercise was particularly ef-  
fective. "The lights went  
on like this!" she said, ex-  
tending her fingers with a  
snap.  

To begin their study of li-  
terary expression, the stu-  
dents studied song lyrics and  
discussed the attitudes  
found in them. They found a  
lot of negativism about re-  
lationships in the songs.  

As Ms. Harris said, there was  
a lot of "I can't live with-  
out you" rather than "I can  
live without you but it's  
nice to have you here."  

The class examined myths--  
Greek, Roman, Oriental, and  
Native American. They found  
traditional sexual roles: wo-  
men in the domestic role and  
men in the hunter role.  

They examined contemporary  
short stories, including J.  
D. Salinger's "Pretty Mouth  
and Green My Eyes," Joyce Car-  
ol Oates' "Where Are You Go-  
ing, Where Have You Been"--and  
found few healthy characters.  
Harris, hating to have every-  
thing seem so negative, intro-  
duced the story, "X--A Fabu-  

BY JAN JIRAK  

lous Child's Story," Ms. Mag-  
azine, December 1972. It is  
a story of a child whose sex  
was concealed. All the stud-  
ents enjoyed reading it but  
insisted that X had to be a  
boy--apparently boys can do  
girl things, but girls can't  
do boy things.  

The class read one novel:  
Temple of God by William Gold-  
man. It is the story of a  
desperately vacuous man who  
exploits a series of desper-  
ately vacuous women. By the  
time they read this book, the  
end of the trimester was imm-  
inent, and their conscious-  
nesses had been raised--they  
"got very angry at the male  
character," Harris said.  

The class will be offered  
the rest of this year and  
next year since student inter-  
est is so high, and Harris  
feels the class she taught  
were fairly open to discus-  
sion about women's liberation.  
During a brief discussion on  
the subject, she notes with  
satisfaction, one of the  
young men said, "That's just  
as much for men, then, too."  

Communication Skills  

The title of Phebe Hanson's  
class changes daily. The  
Minneapolis Vocational High  
School class' formal name is  
"Woman/Man," but "on alter-  
nate days we call it, 'Man/  
Woman'." The men had com-  
plained--they felt discrimin-  
ated against.  

Phebe's honest humor peppers  
conversation about the class.  
She says she used Carole King  
's "You Make Me Feel Like  
a Natural Woman" and Cat Ste-  
vens' "Hard Headed Woman" to  
compare attitudes about women.  
"They (the students) weren't  
as excited about the songs as  
I was--I thought they were  
great.”  

She seems to tap the Univer-  
sal Energy, presenting a mul-  
titude of projects to her  
class. Looking through my  
notes, I find over 15--not  
bad for 12 weeks.  

For example, the class drew  
up lists of good/bad things  
about being a woman/man, put-  
ting the woman lists on a  
blue sheet and the man things  
on a pink sheet. Examples of  
bad things about being a man:  
Having to pay for dates.  

Cops like to pick us up.  

Good things: Not having to  
wear a shirt. Getting intox-  
icated more slowly than women.  
Bad things about being a wom-  
an: Being stared at. Being  
called the weaker sex. Good  
things: Being able to get in-  
to bars at 16 'cause you look 18.  
Being the gentler sex.  

The students wrote essays  
on "What I Have Learned from  
My Mother/Father about Being  
a Woman/Man." In some cases,  
this assignment resulted in  
unprecedented communication  
between parents and offspring  
and one father even showed  
his son a love letter he had  
written to his wife during  
their courtship.  

Ms. Hanson used the work  
of photographer Diane Arbus.  
She gave each student a photo  
and asked them to write a  
character sketch for the per-  
son in the photo. At first  
they did not like their char-  
acters, but as they wrote,  
they developed compassion for  
them. The students then sep-  
arated into small groups and  
wrote plays with the charac-  
ters they had developed.  

The students wrote imagin-  
ary letters to Ann Landers,  
describing problems with the  
opposite sex. Exchanging let-  
ters, they answered each oth-  
ers questions, thinking  
through problems and develop-  
ing writing skills at the  
same time.  

The class viewed several  
films, among them one about  
role reversal called Mascu-  
linity/Femininity. Exploring  
the ideas in it, they wrote  
essays on what would happen  
if their parents switched sex-  
ual roles.  

The class learned interview-  
ing skills from the documen-  
tary Growing Up Female. They  
interviewed students in other  
English classes, some went  
downtown to talk to people,  
some looked for certain peo-  
ple, like the elderly, and  
some tried to get a cross sec-  
tion of the population. The  
students also interviewed  
each other. They thought up  
ten questions they would ask  
someone of the same/opposite  

continued on next  

page

Women’s Studies Continued!

sex to get to know them bet-

ter. Ms. Hanson was surprised
to note that as much hustling
originated from the women as
from the men.

Ms. Hanson says she played
down the feminist angle and
never used the words "women's
liberation" because she knew
if she did, "it would never
sell--and I wanted to teach
this class." She and other
teachers at Vocational do see
some changes in behavior as a
result of her class. A couple
of colleagues have reported
that some of the young men
catch themselves in the mid-
dle of saying "girl" and
change it to "woman."

Sex and Race

Last year's curriculum at
Central High School in Minne-
apolis featured a class
called “Women's Search." The
students, all women, explored
the conditions of their woman-
hood.

Counselor Kathy Ertel,
assisted by English teacher
Jordan and teacher's aide Bes-
sie Green, led 3 weeks of com-
munication exercises. In ret-
rospect, the coordinators and
the students agreed that
these exercises were "absolut-
ely essential" to establish-
ing trust and opening lines
of communication in the class.

At times the exercises seem-
ed futile. Ms. Ertel said,
“We were very discouraged af-
ter some of the classes."
Sometimes they worked, and

JOB OPEN

Administrative Assistant--
Personnel Director

Duties include responsibility
for completion and mainten-
ance of personnel classifi-
cation and pay plan, recruit-
ment and testing of employ-
ees, wage and salary surveys,
review of fringe benefit pro-
grams, training, negotiating
with organized employee
groups, and assisting Council
Administrator in a variety
of duties.

Bachelor's Degree with spec-
ialized training or experi-
ence in personnel administra-
tion required. Master's Deg-
ree desirable, but not nec-
essary. Salary based on ex-
perience. SEND RESUME TO:
PHILIP L. DEATON, COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATOR, BOX 1, RED
WING, MN 55966.

the students began opening to
each other, but "by the time
they really got going, the
bell rang." They met at Ms.
Jordan's home to escape the
bell. A 4-hour "marathon"
ensued. Ertel asked the stu-
dents to sit in a circle next
to someone they did not feel
comfortable with. One of the
students noted, "Isn't it in-
teresting that we are sitting
black-white-black-white."

Race naturally colored all
their discussions, since the
class was half white and half
black. As Ms. Green remarked,
there would be a good discus-
sion going, they would really
be communicating, but “as soon
as race was mentioned, you
could almost see the class
split in two."

The black women, for exam-
ple, could not understand why
white women minded being put
on a pedestal. Green, who is
black, said, "I found that a
little hard to understand my-
self."

Another major topic was fe-
male physiology and sexual ac-
tivity. The women chose speak-
ers to invite to discuss vari-
ous subjects: birth control;
pregnancy; abortion, both pro-
and anti-; rape; homosexuality
and open marriage. A large
number of the students were
sexually active, while some
were not, so a wide spectrum
of experience was available in
the class.

Two male panels, one compos-
ed of teachers and one of stu-
dents at Central, offered the
class their viewpoints. The
coordinators concurred that
the panel of teachers was not
as effective as the panel of
students. Ms. Jordan observed
that they seemed less than can-
did, telling the women what
they thought they should hear.

On the other hand, as one of
the white women remarked, "I
cannot help it if I am white,
middle-class, Anglo-Saxon...I
felt just a little bit cheated
that we didn't spend equal
time discussing problems of
white women."

“They were adult men talking
down to teen-age 'girls.'"

She suggested that perhaps the
male teachers were more firmly
entrenched in their roles than
the male students.

When the male student panel
appeared in class, the women
reacted with giggles and ner-
vousness. After the panel
left, the class was very quiet.
One of the coordinators sugges-
ted they talk about the discu-
ssion. One of the students
said, "Maybe we should talk
about the way we acted so that
next time we can be more real."

Ms. Jordan said the coordin-
ators had hoped that some mea-
sure of sisterhood would be
established among the women,
"but that was very idealistic."
Their loyalties are still ra-
cial rather than sexual.

The students did, however,
decide to end the class with a
slumber party. The morning of
the party, one of the students
gave birth to a baby girl.

The class agreed that was a
fitting way to end the course.

ERRATIC SITE ETS ESSER HALE EDIE
PEOPLE’S FOOD SYSTEM

Whole Foods, 2502 1st Ave
So., 824-3474
Good Grits, 15th & Spruce
339-5924
People's Bakery,
Lake, 721-7205
People's Warehouse,
11th Ave. So., 341-3838
Worth Country, 2215 River-
side, 338-3110

Lending Library

By Heidi Reidel!

Finding the perfect obstetrical care took a lot of shopping around, but for Rebecca and Jose Barreiro of St. Paul, it was worth it. Rebecca explained their search and its fruits.

"I didn't want to have a doctor," said Rebecca. “I went to several but they didn't please me. They had an abrupt manner and I didn't feel they cared at all about me. I thought there had to be something else.”

Rebecca learned of Sharon Rising, a nurse midwife who teaches nurse-midwifery at the University of Minnesota School of Nursing. Rebecca said the way Rising treated her over the phone was a 100 percent improvement over the doctors she had seen.

"I decided I would go through with it. I'm a foreigner (she's from Cuba) and midwives were common where I came from. I wasn't scared of a midwife, but a lot of my friends said how could you do it? They think of midwifery as really medieval and spooky."

“I was her patient for four months before the baby was born. I liked the office visits a lot."

She said they were usually one-half hour to forty-five minutes long.

"Most doctors saw three or four patients in the time she saw me. She was not hurried and said I could call her any time. I didn't call. I'd save all my questions and take my time during the visit."

Rebecca spent the early part of her labor at home and didn't go to the hospital until her contractions came 30 seconds apart.

"She didn't rush me," continued Rebecca. "I checked with her all day long. I was educated as to the process so I could inform her fairly well about the timing and everything else."

Rebecca was glad to be home during her early labor. She thinks the bustle and confusion of a hospital would have detracted from the labor. "The sterility...the uncomfortable bed...the environment is not conducive to a relaxed labor," she explained.

When Rebecca, who hates the thought of hospitals, arrived, “it was great. When I was wheeled in, there was Sharon. She stayed with me all the time," said Rebecca. And that "all the time" amounted to seven more hours.

Like A Family Affair

"I'm a very high control person, I have to know what's happening to my body," Rebecca continued. "I had enough confidence in Sharon that I trusted what she said to me."

Sharon Rising's constant care had a special advantage for Rebecca. "I didn't have a whole barrage of nurses I didn't know coming in and out," she said.

Rebecca's exceptionally long labor had left her dehydrated and her muscles tense. Sharon decided she needed fluid intravenously and a muscle relaxing injection.

Rebecca didn't want the IV but, "I accepted it with Sharon, I wouldn't have with a nurse. She used a muscle relaxer that would leave me in control. She took a long time to explain it to me. Some just do, they don't explain. It was such an improvement over what my other American friends have told me."

"The whole thing was like a family affair. I didn't feel like I was sick. I had the best I could get," concluded Rebecca.

Midwifery Delivers Promises

Rebecca's and José's son should have been whisked off to the nursery because his temperature was 1/2 degree below normal. But Sharon let him stay with his new, excited parents to be nursed, photographed and played with for the first time.

Rebecca was ravenously hungry after 27 hours of labor. 

"No one eats at 3 a.m.," said Rebecca and all she got was toast and water. She fell asleep in the recovery room.

"When I woke up, Sharon was there. The hospital food wasn't enough to satisfy. She helped me a lot,” said Rebecca. "All the other women were getting shit."

"Sharon came to see me twice a day,” continued Rebecca. "Most other women saw their doctors once a day or every other day and had no one to answer questions. Sharon came to visit me twice at home, too.”

After she had been home for several weeks,  
Rebecca was still disappointed about the for-  
ceps delivery.  
"I wondered if by squatting  
or sidelying I could have dislodged the baby  
myself."  

She and Jose went to Sharon's office with  
their questions and went through the whole  
birth experience step-by-step. They questioned  
each other as to things they could have  
done differently or how they could have mis-  
read the situation.  
After their discussion,  
"I felt tremendously better, this big thing lifted off me."  

As to Rebecca's impressions of how they  
could have avoided the forceps episode, Re-  
becca said that Sharon wasn't condescending,  
she didn't have the "how dare you question  
me" attitude I've gotten from other doctors.  
"We reached conclusions together and that  
made her feel a part of us.  
It was really good."  

The Barriero's plan to leave the country  
next year, but Rebecca plans to return to  
Sharon for the birth of their second child.  

And the doctor with his handy forceps  
didn't recognize Rebecca when she went for  
her five-weeks checkup.  
"He thought I was a new patient."  

Twin Cities Obstetrics  

With all there is to  
choose from, a woman can either  
find exactly the kind of  
obstetrical care she wants or  
make a lot of mistakes. Here  
are some suggestions for  
choosing wisely.  

1. If you are interested  
in having a midwife attend  
you, there are two nurse-mid-  
wives in the Twin Cities who  
have private practices, Mar-  
garet Hewitt of Hennepin  
County General Hospital and  
Sharon Rising of the Univer-  
sity of Minnesota School of  
Nursing. Sharon has some  
friends who will soon be set-  
ting up practices and either  
woman would know if other  
midwives are available.  

2. The time and establi-  
shment-honored ways to locate  
a physician are to call the  
local medical society or med-  
ical school.  

With the Hennepin County  
Medical Society, you are tak-  
ing pot luck. When one of  
the Society's 2,000 physi-  
cians has an opening, the cen-  
tral desk is notified and you  
get the names of three doc-  
tors in your area.  

The AMA advises prospective  
patients to call their  
local university or medical  
school and describe the  
kind of care you want.  

3. The Childbirth Education  
Association (CEA) has de-  
vised a more personal app-  
roach. By calling the CEA  
class registration number, you  
can also obtain a list of doc-  
tors supportive of prepared  
childbirth and couple parti-  
cipation. The doctors are re-  
commended by those who have  
taken a CEA course. You will  
also be given the home phone  
number of a person who reco-  
mmended that doctor. Call,  
chat with a satisfied customer  
and see if their philosophy a-  
grees with yours. Thus, you  
can save yourself the hassle  
and cost of an office visit  
and get a personal view.  

4. The La Leche League  
does the same kind of referral  
in a less extensive, less or-  
ganized way. They can help  
you find a doctor supportive  
of breastfeeding, however.  

5. Call the individual doc-  
tors you are interested in.  
If they don't inspire confi-  
dence or if you disagree with  
their approach, hang up and  
try again.  

6. Referral agencies such  
as Community Line can give you  
names of agencies and hospi-  
tals but make no individual  
recommendations.  

Sister Mary Meyer of St.  
Joseph's Hospital in St. Paul  
recently completed a survey  
of hospitals offering OB ser-  
vice in this area. She found  
that there are 20 hospitals  
with maternity wards opera-  
ting at 40 percent occupancy.  
In order to economize, some  
are combining gynecological  
departments with OB depart-  
ments.  

According to Sister Meyer,  
both kinds of patients are  
not getting the kind of care  
and attention they deserve.  

So be mindful that when  
you choose an obstetrician or  
family doctor or midwife,  
you are also choosing the hos-  
pital he or she practices in.  

Hospitals are competitive,  
consumer facilities—business-  
es. You are the consumer and  
have every right and an obli-  
gation to yourself to ask que-  
stions.  

Feel free to call the mat-  
ernity wards of individual  
hospitals to ask about facili-  
ties. Tour several and com-  
pare them. Remember, you are  
paying them for their serv-  
ices. If you don't like what  
you see, you probably don't  
live far from a hospital more  
to your liking.  

Feel free to question your  
doctor or midwife about hosp-  
ital and personal policy, too.  
Are fathers allowed in the  
delivery room? On whose  
terms— their permission or  
your request? Can you have  
rooming-in (having your baby  
in your hospital room with  
you)?  

You have the right and an  
increasing opportunity to get  
the kind of childbirth care  
you desire. Don't stop look-  
ing until you are satisfied.  
Having a baby isn't a time for  
worry or questions. It is a  
time to celebrate.

Part 2 of a 3-Part Series

“We Want to Help You, Dear”

by Mary Hastings

NOTE TO READERS: The author was, until recently, employed by a Twin Cities firm. In May 1972 she filed
a sex discrimination charge against the corporation with the Minnesota Department of Human Rights. Sub-
sequently, she also filed a charge of race and sex discrimination against the corporation with the federal

Equal Employment Opportunities Commission (EEOC).

The State Commissioner of Human Rights, in November 1972, returned a decision of "no probable cause" to

assume the corporation had discriminated against women.

The author and her attorney appealed that decision

to the State Appeal Board. It overturned the Commissioner's decision and sent the charge back for reinvesti-

gation. The State Department of Human Rights has been in the reinvestigation process since April 1973. At this
writing, the author has received no information from the State concerning the disposition of her charge. (The
EEOC awaits the outcome of the State charge before taking jurisdiction.)

Part I of this series outlined events leading up to the filing of a sex discrimination charge, the filing pro-
cedure and the confrontation of the author and her supervisor after he was served with the charge.

Part II covers the three weeks following this confrontation:

Corporate Persuasion

Sisters, what is happening to you when:

* You take notes at a meeting with male
peers, even though you have the only
Master's Degree in the room, are demon-
strably the most intelligent and are
supposedly equal to the males?

* You attempt to introduce an equitable

- system of housekeeping to your husband,
but clean the toilet, wash the dishes
and carry out the stacks of newspapers
collecting dust in the hall closet, after
you have been subjected to a week-long
silent treatment, accompanied by slamming
doors and crashing pots and pans.

* You are huffily asked if you've read
Henry Steele Commager's history of
American expansionism after you've shot
holes in a man's sophomoric political
vaporings.

You are on a guided tour of the male
arsenal, bristling with weapons to keep an
aberrant woman in her place. In the three
weeks following service of my charge against
the company, I took the first conscious steps
on my year-and-a-half tour of that arsenal.

Two hours after my supervisor acknowledged
my charge, I received a call from the
Vice President of Planning and Administra-
tion, a woman. She asked me if I would meet
her to "discuss this charge." I agreed and
met her late that afternoon at a downtown
motel where she and other top management
were in a "planning session." I was treated
to dinner on the corporate expense account
and the threat (larded with "concern") that
if I did not drop my charge my working life
would be—at best—unpleasant.

I said little, realizing that silence was
my proper state. I discounted much of the
menace underlying her "sisterly concern."

I knew that the woman was, unfortunately,
ignorant, with little understanding of the
issues involved in my charge.

Thanks to her, I had a first painful
glimpse of the limitations of sisterhood. I
had hoped—because of our common womanhood—
for an unguarded exchange. But I believe
that anyone involved in a sex discrimination

charge will encounter such untrustworthy wo-
men. They are "shills," to be dealt with as
a man, except for a measure of pity.

I also was introduced to the venality of
the company's top executives. She regaled me
with a sordid account of the personal doings
of her colleagues. She vilified my super-
visor and expressed considerable satisfaction
that my charge would "put him in his
place." I gathered that this outpouring
sprang from her personal frustrations and a
misguided attempt to disarm me.

When we completed our very brief dinner,
she announced that personnel representatives
would contact me in an effort to resolve
this "misunderstanding."

As I left the dining room, I noticed four
of her male colleagues at a back table. I
imagined that they already knew their "stalk-
ing horse" had failed.

Sinister Silence

When I arrived at work the following morn-
ing, I expected to be the object of whispered
conversations in the cafeteria and stares in
the hallways. Any other bad news traveled
rapidly at the company. Indeed, it seemed
that the prevailing management technique com-
bined general gossip and specific character
assassination. But, oddly, nothing changed in
my co-workers' attitudes toward me. For the

Sex Discrimination, continued

next week, I expected momentarily to be os-
tracized. This never happened on a wide
scale. Certain selected males were even-
tually told of my heresy. Interestingly,
these men were in positions to adversely
affect my ability to do my job. But news
of my charge was never generally bruited a-
bout. It was the special hope of the com-
pany's personnel people to guard news of my
action from women, who might be emboldened.

A week and a half following my dinner
with J, the Personnel Director summoned me
to his office. J was a suave, wolf-like
man with iron-tinted hair, black bullet eyes
and a reputation for canniness in "employee
relations." I had heard from my male
friends that he was a shouter and desk poun-
der when confronted with problems he could
not smother with unction. Naively, I assum-
ed I would have to face such violence. I
didn't realize that this approach was reser-
ved for males—full-fledged members of hum-
anity. Women could be gotten around with a
minimum of energy.

J introduced me to the most important and
pervasive weapon men use against women—
AUTHORITY.

As I sat opposite his laminated walnut
stain desk, I became 10-year-old Mary again,
a straight-A student who rarely misbehaved
in school but who nonetheless chafed at the
Calvinistic hypocrisy of the teachers—
indeed, who felt secret kinship with a
fourth-grade reprobate named Clarence who
was the object of our teacher's shocking
cruelty because the unfortunate boy didn't
have the ability to stud his report cards
with A's and to confine his rebellion to the
perimeters of his mind.

J, of course, knew nothing of Clarence and
10-year-old Mary. Before him sat a strange,
"wrong-headed" woman who needed setting
straight.

"I wish you had come to us first," he de-
clared. "I'm sure we could settle this mis-
understanding within the company, without a
formal, legalistic structure."

J hoped I would seriously consider drop-
ping the charge and "working with the Per-
sonnel Department to correct any misunder-
standing."

He had been in touch with the State Depart-
ment of Human Rights. He had vast experi-
ence in minority employee problems. He was
a friend of the State Commissioner of Hum-
an Rights. These credentials presented, J
launched a monologue about his daughters,
who were track stars, and could compete as
fiercely as any man. Women were, naturally,
equal to men. (I privately wondered if he
felt the appropriate female costume to be a
brass-buttoned jacket and tin cup.)

All a Misunderstanding

While the edge of my mind accompanied J's
daughters around the race track, the core of
my thoughts rested on the mildly ominous word
"misunderstanding." Q had also used it. I
had anticipated many unpleasant consequences
of filing the charge. But I had expected
the company to defend itself against that
charge of sex discrimination. It devolved
upon Q, and especially J, to point out that
there had been no discrimination, only "mis-
understanding."

There is nothing so characteristic of late
20th century Americans as their practice of
denying a problem, a crime, a wart on a
backside. And since America is male, I
should not have been surprised to discover
that my problem with my employer lay in faulty
understanding, not oppression.

I hope you will agree to meet with

I was drawn from my sociological rumina-
tions to J's conciliatory smile.
"Of course," I responded guiltily. Guilt?
Why that? Because of that female burden, I
made the error of ever seriously countenanc-
ing the company's empty blandishments. But
I had been raised to strive toward honesty
and empathy with my fellows. I should have
approached the Pandora's Box of conciliation
more cautiously. (See box, page <p)

J relaxed as he read the familiar signs
of female hesitation and guilt at creating
"obstacles and unpleasantness."

As far as I was concerned, our meeting
was over. (Although yet afflicted with many
"female weaknesses," I had already allowed
my naturally strong personality to assert
itself by terminating meetings when I chose,
rather than awaiting dismissal from the pa-
triarch/male.) Accordingly, I arose, in-
formed J I would contact the State Investi-
gator on my case about a "conciliation meet-
ing" and left.

On returning to my office I called the
State Investigator and we settled on a meet-
ing date two weeks distant.

I then had 14 days to analyze my situa-
tion. As the gears of American due process
missed and meshed, I became aware of a pat-
tern forming in my relationship with the com-
pany:

Discrimination, continued

@Personnel and top management would keep my action quiet and I would abet them because of a personal dislike of notoriety.

@I would not be dramatically dismissed, as I had thought. (Nothing so clean or kind lay in store for me.)

®The company would attempt to appease me in the initial phase of dealing with my charge.

@The company would try to wear me down. Less than a month had passed since I filed the charge, and already I was tired. Now I realized that my anticipation of confrontation and resolution was illusory. I still only dimly perceived, however, the difficulty of watching my every word and act, of performing my job satisfactorily and of somehow finding the mental and emotional reserves to withstand the company's onslaught.

This pattern would undergo some significant modifications in what I think of as "Phase II and III" of the prosecution of my charge, but the basic pattern—set less than one month after I filed—remained in force until I quit my job two months ago.

Jolt Pmt Gucdauimn? @)

The Art of Conciliation--- or What Every Trojan Should Know About Greeks

If you file a sex discrimination charge against your employer in Minnesota, you are required to partake of "conciliation" if the respondent (your employer) so wishes. Thus, you should be prepared to abide by the law, but always remember that a sincere employer is as rare as a rich man in heaven.

Your employer will be ever so eager to have you drop the charge so that you and the company can "work together" to clear up the "misunderstanding." Never, never drop your charge. You will have wasted all the pain and energy it cost you to file. And your employer will simply wear you down until you quit or, in a few months, a plausible reason will be found to fire you.

As I noted in Part I of this series, it is best to retain an attorney before you ever file a charge. But certainly, if you are approaching "conciliation" and do not have legal counsel, hesitate no longer. Do not go into conciliation meetings without prior advice from an attorney.

Be sure to limit your employer's "conciliation" attempts. Do not allow it to postpone action with sharp maneuvers.

Your employer will, of course, make fulsome promises. In my case, the only concrete result of conciliation was an inadequate salary adjustment. (See details of my first conciliation meeting in Part III of this series next month.) My salary was adjusted back several months—NOT to my starting date. Thus, I could not claim my employer had admitted that I was treated unfairly at the outset.

All other promises revolved around my completing "career counseling" and "job clarification" with my supervisor. It is interesting to note that, once again, the female was assumed to be lacking in some way. I was forced into these ridiculous exercises, even though I was the aggrieved party. This "turning the tables" on women is the second important weapon men have.

I spent many hours listing my job functions, categorizing them on 3 x 5 note cards and assigning a mysterious "A, B or C" authority rating to each task. These exercises were a burden on me and detracted from the time I could spend doing my job. Meanwhile, my employer was hiding in the blizzard of note cards, thoughtfully planning its next step.

(The company's enthusiasm for making me happy in my work declined precipitously when they realized I would not drop the charge.)

You should understand that while your employer is tiring you out with countless interviews and heaping insulting "concern" on you over your “unhappiness” with your job, it is busily marshalling its defenses. And they are impressive.

Your employer has unlimited money. (Relatively speaking)

Your employer either has its own legal staff or the ability to retain legal experts.

Your employer has reams of statistics that can be molded like hot gold to present an innocent face.

@YOUR EMPLOYER HAS RESPECTABILITY.

And you have:

™ the right to retain an attorney. Do so, for your peace of mind and the proper prosecution of your charge.

Your employer's fear of publicity. I could not exploit this, because of personal squeamishness. But carefully consider the value of this fear. I think that group actions might be particularly aided by public exposure of your employer. (Your employer will, of course, find your perverted love of publicity morally repugnant.)

Female co-workers. Supposedly "non-feminist" women can be extremely supportive of a woman involved in a sex discrimination charge. I made the mistake of hiding my action from most of my female colleagues. Although it is not advisable to aggressively proselytize "non-political" women, it is wise to tell them about your action and how it can affect them.

SEASON  
OF  

The  
WITCH  

A FESTIVAL OF,  
BY AND FOR WOMEN  

featuring  

“FAMILY OF WOMAN”  
LESBIAN. FEMINIST. MUSICIANS  

SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15  
NOKOLLET AVENUE, MINNEAPOLIS  

SCHEDULE:  
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT: TICKETS — $2.00 DONATION  

5:30 PM  
‘SUBSTANTIAL SNACKS | COFFMAN UNION  
COME, TOO,  

6-7:30 PM  
SUPPER - BISCUITS (CHILD CARE) WILL BE PROVIDED  

SOW WEST LAKE STREET  

7:30 PM — DRUMMING  
ENTERTAINMENT TWIN CITIES, WOMEN'S UNION .............  
POETRY READING INGTON AVE. $  
SPONSORED BY ELIZABETH-  
9 PM — MIDNIGHT.  
“FAMILY OF WOMAN” woven come SERIES...  
WOMEN'S UNION NO LESBIAN  
CONCERT & DANCE PERFORMED BY RESOURCE CENTER  

ALL WOMEN WELCOME  
COMPANY  

1534 EAST L  
GRANOLA

14

SELF PORTRAIT BY JOAN JOHNSTONE

Hand-tinted photographs reminiscent of
early 20th century postcards are featured
in an exhibition on view through December
30 at the upstairs gallery of the Afro-
American Cultural Arts Center, 24 S. 31st
Street, Minneapolis.

The photographs are the work of a young
woman artist, Joan Johnstone, whose work
has been seen before in University exhibi-
tions and who worked as a portfolio artist
with Lee Strasberg's Actors Studio in New
York before returning to Minneapolis early
this year.

The technique is an original one, invented
by Johnstone through experimental attempts
to reproduce the delicate colors of the old
postcards she collects. Working on matte
paper, she creates smooth surfaces with oil
color, brilliant highlights with water dyes.

Johnstone points out that her work, al-
though experimental, is an enlargement of
traditional photographic techniques and
is not done merely for the sake of exper-
imentation. "My technique modifies the
black-and-white photograph, and gives it
more impact," Johnstone says. The photo-
graphs are painted in a careful process
that may take up to ten hours.

THEATRE

"Renaissance of Barnabe Barnes," a play by
Barbara Nosanow. Nightly through Dec. 2,
admission free, 7 pm, Rarig Center.

A Thousand Port holes

a book of poetic writings and
random thoughts

By
Paula C vip

at your local book store

ART EXHIBITS

DANCE

ALICE MORE STOLPE, oil landscapes. Through
December, Lutheran Brotherhood, 701 2nd Ave.
South.

BARBARA LOKEN, batiks. Through December,
Kilbride-Bradley Art Gallery, 3208 Henn.
JOYCE LYONS, BETTY HAUGE, JUDY JOHNSON,
VICKI FAGUE. Gallery C, Jewish Community
Center, St. Louis Park.

ALMA HAYES, EVELYN JOHN, wood, metal and
fiber arrangements. Highland Art Gallery,
621 S. Cleveland, St. Paul.

SHIRLEY HANSON, sculptured wall composi-
tions. Through December, Cinema I and II.
LOUISE NEVELSON, sculptures. Through Dec.
30, Walker Art Center.

KAREN CARSON, drawings. Through December 8,
One Hundred and Eighteen Gallery, 1007
Harmon Place.

RUTH OSEID, paintings. Through December,
Gallery Giglio, 3004 27th Ave. S.

LOYCE HOULTON, choreographer's evening.
8 pm, Nov. 30, Walker Art Center.

MUSIC

EMMA SMALL, soprano. 10:30 am, Dec. 13,
St. Mark's Cathedral.

KATHRYN SANDQUIST, piano, CAROL CHRISTEN-
SEN, soprano, BOBBIE ANN YOUNG, soprano.

10:30 am, Dec. 4, St. Paul Arts & Sciences
Center.

FILM

BEATRIX POTTER AND PETER RABBIT. 8 pm,
Dec. 11, St. Paul Arts & Science Center.
Minneapolis artist Linda Klosky will be one
of six young filmmakers to be featured on
public television in mid-March, 1974. The
half-hour film, part of a series, will focus
on Linda's life and work, and on the Minne-
apolis art scene. It was filmed here in
October.

Women’s Film Festival

A free women’s film festival, "Women in
the Reel World," will be held in Ann Arbor,
Michigan, on February 6, 7, 8 and 9, 1974.

“Women in the Reel World" is being organ-
ized by Women's Media and the Ann Arbor Wo-
men's Video Workshop, in conjunction with the
Women's Studies Program of the University of
Michigan.

Included in the festival will be films
made by women representing various national-
ities and diverse historical periods. Also
the festival committee is accepting 16 mm
films from women on any subject, any genre,
any length.

The festival is non-competitive. It will
provide exposure for films rarely given wide
public viewings. New filmmakers are espec-
ially encouraged to submit their works. New
Morning Films, an eleven-state distributor,
will be screening films for possible distrib-
ution. Anyone desiring further information
should call: 313/763-2047, or write:

Alice Steinicke, Women's Film Festival Comm-
ittee, Women's Studies Program, 1958 LS&A
Bldg., Ann Arbor, Mich. 48104.

Films must be received by December 30,
1973.

Workshops, post-film discussions, and
guest speakers are planned as part of the
festival program. All activities will be
open to the public free of charge.

POEMRY

A POEM TO THE POEM THAT DIDN'T LOVE ME

It was you who turned away.

I came risking everything...

husband's jealousy, frenzied traffic,

my life itself... to be with you, scrounged
for change to get me through the door

where I knew you'd be,

laid my heart bare and waited

to be flipped on my back

blinded by passion.

Nothing happened.

Beryle Williams

"MY LOVELY LADY, WHY CAN'T YOU SLEEP?"*

Finding no wolf's tooth

in a world that's lost its wilderness,
gone wild itself, instead,

I lay my head on a pillow of ice

and watch. Slow across the wastes
beyond moonstruck, barren sill

he comes, his great white coat

touched blue beneath his chin and

at his loins, with shadow.

He looms a moment in my window,
nostrils twitching at unexpected scent,
then jet-glow eyes go red in shock when
I open my jaws and swallow him.

Beryle Williams
=x

"Take a wolf's tooth," he said, "and lay it

on your window sill." "It will frighten
away the evil spirits.”

YOU SAVE ME EVERY TIME YOU SPEAK

If I took off shoe after shoe
sock after sock

my feet would still be heavy

and my face as long as a tree.

My hands aching from clay

Your face aching from the smile
that I catch now

Your soft voice

Your soft, smiling voice

You save me every time.

Marisha Chamberlain

NOW RAIN DOWN

bicycle through storm
love of this
I bring the clay
hands, wheel,

water

that once spoke the softest of rivers

now rain down
now lightning

now thunder

Marisha Chamberlain

Portrait of a Marriage § ,

| Book
Review

‘Vita, Violet

by Susan Cushman

My acquaintance with Vita Sackville-West
has been a gradual and increasingly pleasant
experience. I first noticed her while read-
ing about Virginia Woolf; Vita was a writer-
ly friend who lagged somewhat behind Virginia's literary tastes, yet thoroughly satis-
fied her as a companion. Virginia wrote, "I
like her and being with her and the splen-
dour...There is her maturity and full breast-
edness; her being so much in full sail on
the high tides, where I am coasting down
backwaters; her capacity I mean to take the
floor in any country...her being in short
(what I have never been) a real woman. Then
there is some voluptuousness about her; the
grapes are ripe; and not reflective."

Virginia expressed her liking for Vita
more fully in Orlando, a rambunctious, gal-
lant novel about a hearty human being whose
life spanned several centuries and encompas-
sed an abrupt and final sex change. The
book was dedicated to Vita and contained
some curious photographs of her.

Orlando was perhaps the first positive
public commemoration of a tumultuous, sexually
ambivalent period in Vita's life. The
second public recognition has come in the
recently published Portrait of a Marriage
(Atheneum, 249 pages, $10) by Nigel Nicolson,
Vita's youngest son.

The book has five sections - two by Vita
and three by Nicolson. Vita's are autobio-
graphical, written when she was 28, married,
and dramatically involved in a love affair
with another woman - Violet Trefusis. She
begins with her aristocratic heritage, pas-
ses through her apparently unhappy child-
hood, and finally concentrates on the con-
flict which arose when she could not deci-
sively choose between Violet and her husband,
diplomat Harold Nicolson. Her account gains
momentum as she catches up to events in the
final entries, which take on the immediacy
of a diary.

“An Absurd Circumstance”

Nicolson's portions serve as commentary
and contextual filler, as he attempts to
place Vita's incomplete autobiography within
the framework of her entire life.

Vita had been married to Harold Nicolson
for five years when she was reunited with
Violet, a childhood friend, in a suddenly
erotic relationship. It was not Vita's
first homosexual involvement; prior to her
marriage she had been offhandedly conducting
an affair with Rosamund, another childhood
friend. Because she had not been seriously
taken with Rosamund, whom she quite brutally
shucked off after her wedding, Vita evident-
ly considered sexual love between women a
frivolous, easily controlled hobby.

But her love for Violet was powered by an
irresistible impetus, for with Violet, Vita
became a new, strangely exuberant person.
Two years after the affair had begun in
earnest, she wrote: "An absurd circumstance
gave rise to the whole thing; I had just got
clothes like the women-on-the-land were wear-
ing, and in the unaccustomed freedom of
breeches and gaiters I went into wild
spirits; I ran, I shouted, I jumped, I climbed,
I vaulted over gates, I felt like a

& Harold

schoolboy let out on a holiday; and Violet
followed me across fields and woods with a
new meekness, saying very little, but never
taking her eyes off me...it was simply the
drunkenness of liberation - the liberation
of half my personality. She opened up to me
a new sphere.”

After the sphere had lost its newness, it
became infinitely complicated. Violet and
Vita spent a passionate summer together,
going off on small trips whenever they could.
In late fall, they left for France with
plans to return to England before Christmas.
But in Paris, Vita took advantage of a newly
discovered excitement.

The Boy Julian

"I dressed as a boy. It was easy, because
I could put a khaki bandage round my head,
which in those days was so common that it
attracted no attention at all. I browned my
face and hands...My height of course was my
great advantage. I looked like a rather un-
tidy young man, a sort of undergraduate, of
about nineteen...Violet used to call me
Julian. We dined together every evening in
cafes and restaurants, and went to all the
theatres. I shall never forget the evenings
when we walked back slowly to our flat
through the streets of Paris. I, personally
had never felt so free in my life. Perhaps
we have never been so happy since."

The two lovers did not return at Christ-
mas. By the time Vita and Violet meandered
into London at the end of March, the "scan-
dal" had become semi-public and Vita was ur-
ged to give Violet up to an impending mar-
riage of her own.

Violet wanted to make a complete break and
live with Vita in unhampered female freedom.
Vita vacillated. Then Violet married, pro-
bably in an attempt to stir Vita into jeal-
ous action. The two rejected husbands con-
ducted a united campaign in their efforts to
separate their wives. In the end, after
chases back and forth across Europe, the hus-
bands were triumphant and the women parted
in the spring of 1920. Their affair had
lasted three years.

Soon after Vita's death in 1962, Nigel Ni-
colson found her short, handwritten autobio-
graphy locked away in her writing room. He
waited until his father also died, and then
a few years more, ten in all, before bring-
ing the manuscript to light. Apparently, he
feared that readers would condemn Vita and
disregard the eventually stable and long-
lasting marriage between his mother and

father. As the title indicates, his commen-
tary in Portrait of a Marriage reduces the
affair with Violet to an episode within a
larger, insulating framework.
Harold Nicolson, also a homosexual,
did not begrudge Vita an extramarital escapade
for he conducted some himself. But he was
not prepared to let them permanently inter-
fere with the continuum of his life with Vita.
Though Vita had much the same attitude,
the intensity of her relationship with Violet
took her by surprise. She wrote to
Nigel in 1960:
"When we married, you were older than I
was, and far better informed. I was very

young, and very innocent. I knew nothing  
about homosexuality. I didn't even know  
that such a thing existed either between men  
or between women. You should have told me.  
You should have warned me. You should have  
told me about yourself and warned me that  
the same sort of thing was likely to happen  
to myself. It would have saved us a lot of  
trouble and misunderstanding. But I simply  
didn't know.”  

What Vita didn't know, or Harold either,  

I think, was that sexual love of any sort  
could be an overwhelming, sustained exper-  
ience. While they had been sexually inter-  
ested in each other at the beginning of their  
marriage, this facet of their relationship,  
which was probably never too enthusiastic,  
was eliminated after the birth of their  
second son. Harold's involvements with men  
were brief and inconsequential. No doubt he  
assumed that Vita's would be the same; and  
once her ardor for Violet had been stilled,  
Vita did in fact conduct subsequent affairs  
lightheartedly.  

Portrait of a Marriage is both provocative  
and unyielding. Vita's account was written  
during an emotionally turbulent time, when  
she believed that her life was "a morass...  
a bog, a swamp, a deceitful country” and her  
writing seems hurried and incomplete. She  
began the story because she wanted to tell  
the truth about a habitually secret sort of  
relationship and "because I hold the convic-  
tion that as centuries go on, and the sexes  
become more nearly merged...such connections  
will to a very large extent cease to be re-  
garded as merely unnatural, and will be un-  
derstood far better...I believe that then  

the psychology of people like myself will be  
a matter of interest, and I believe it will  
be recognized that many more people of my  
type do exist than under the present-day  
system of hypocrisy is commonly admitted."  

Vita went on to say that even if homosex-  
uality is an “evil” it should be treated  
with candor. Her ambivalence toward homo-  
sexuality was never resolved.  

Sympathy, Neutrality & Flatness  

In his chapters, Nicolson alternates be-  
tween sympathy and neutrality toward his  
mother's private life. However, his col-  
lection of surrounding facts, while no doubt  
carefully gathered, serve to flatten, rather  
than illuminate Vita's recollection. Be-  
tween the two of them, Violet remains a  
shadowy figure and the sequence of events an  
undeciphered jumble. Still, the book is a  
breakthrough of sorts, since the very pri-  
vate lives of famous people are not often  
revealed when homosexuality is a significant  
factor. Portrait of a Marriage would have  
been a more satisfying book, however, if  
Nicolson had not been so concerned with the  
reticent dictates of "good taste."  

Vita's best writing describes her exuber-  
ant transformation into “Julian." The  
switch had cultural, as well as sexual, con-  
notations. Vita wrote: "I never appreciated  
anything so much as living like that with  
my tongue perpetually in my cheek, and in  
defiance of every policeman I passed."  

Nigel Nicolson assumed that Vita was re-  
lieved to have emerged from the Violet/Ju-  
lian period to settle down to a calmer 40  
years as Harold's definite wife. I wonder  
about that, particularly when I read Vir-  
ginia Woolf's knowing passage in Orlando  
where she describes a change from male to  
female. Orlando is sailing for England and  
ponders the thing that has taken place.  

"{It is a strange fact, but a true one that  
up to this moment she had scarcely given her  
sex a thought...it was not until she felt  

“These skirts are plaguey things”  

the coil of skirts about her legs and the  
Captain offered, with the greatest polite-  
ness, to have an awning for her on deck that  
she realised, with a start, the penalties and  
the privileges of her position..."Lord," she  
thought, when she had recovered from her  
start..."this is a pleasant, lazy way of  
life, to be sure. But," she thought, giving  
her legs a kick, “these skirts are plaguey  
things to have about one's heels"...Here  

she tossed her foot impatiently, and showed  
an inch or two of calf. A sailor on the  
mast, who happened to look down at the moment  
started so violently that he missed his foot-  
ing and only saved himself by the skin of  
his teeth. "If the sight of my ankles means  
death to an honest fellow who, no doubt, has  
a wife and family to support, I must, in all  
humanity, keep them covered," Orlando  
thought..."A pox on them!" she said, realis-  
ing for the first time, what, in other cir-  
cumstances she would have been taught as a  
child, that is to say, the sacred responsi-  
bilities of womanhood..."All I can do, once  
I set foot on English soil, is to pour out  
tea and ask my lords how they like it. D'you  
take sugar? D'you take cream?" And mincing  
out the words, she was horrified to perceive  
how low an opinion she was forming of the  
other sex, the manly, to which it had once  
been her pride to belong."  

Orlando the man into Orlando the woman,  
Julian back into Vita, and I somehow see  
this passage Virginia Woolf wrote for Vita  
Sackville-West as one of the finer tributes  
one woman has ever paid another.  

That very special holiday  
gift for your favorite child  
is waiting for you at  
LEARN ME —  
the shop which has unique and wholesome toys, games, books,  
educational aids and wondrous treasures.  

For instance, we have ROBOT cards — the replacement for  
Old Maid, wooden jigsaw puzzles, reusable wipe-off activity  
cards, lacing cards, Alpha Blocks.  

Drop in any time. We're open 10:30 a.m. — 5:30 p.m.,  

M-F, M & Th 'til 8:30 p.m., Sat., 9:30 a.m. — 4:30 p.m.  

642 Grand Ave., St. Paul  
222-5583,  

Kathy Olson - Shirley Keenan  
and Me - the special 3 record  

You  

Free to Be  

Magazines... continued from page 3  

The reasons are economic and sexist in  
origin. ‘The advertisers (on whom the maga-  
zine depends) depend themselves on promoting  
a reading base of unenlightened, unliberated,  
insecure females who will buy their products.  
Women's magazines are designed to be picked  
up while waiting in line at the supermarket  
or waiting in the doctor's office or waiting  
for the sauce to thicken. If a woman's time  
was viewed as being valuable, magazines  
could no longer afford to waste their energy  
on such fluff and still remain solvent. And  
those magazines without the fluff (Women:  

A Journal of Liberation, the second wave)  
do not have advertisements and therefore  
never reach the popular newsstands.  

Ms. magazine has its faults. It is slick  
to excess. It is heavily oriented to the  
East. I miss the column “Found Women."  
After reviewing the competition, I was so  
glad to receive the December issue of Ms.  
that once again, life stopped for an after-  
noon until it was read cover to cover. It  
was time well spent.  

But

Toward A World Without Labels

by Dianna Hunter

I've been thinking a lot lately about how I,  
a lesbian woman, can love women who choose  
to live with and love men. By this I mean  
both the so-called "straight" woman whose  
most intimate energies go into men and the  
so-called “bisexual” woman whose most inti-  
mate energies may also go into women.

It's been about two and a half years since  
I realized I was a lesbian and came out in  
my consciousness-raising group. And now  
I've had about two and a half years of  
problems in dealing with "bisexual" and  
"straight" women.

When I came out, I was living with four other  
women. We had gotten together by chance  

to rent a professor's house, which turned  

out to be the perfect setting for my coming  
out. Two of the other women and I were  
involved in feminist consciousness-raising  
groups. We talked about women, sexism,  
sexuality, lesbianism, and other feminist  
issues at length, both inside and outside  

the groups. For me, this was a major part  

of all that I learned from those women. I  
also learned about cooking, painting, weav-  
ing, and pottery. I felt this time was a  
vibrant time, a time pregnant with personal  
growth. The feminist ideas, my relationships  
with the women of my house and with one  

other close friend, my friends' work in  

the arts--all these influences moved me to  
realize the deep love I had for other women.

I was coming out slowly, learning new ways  
that I could touch women with my body, my  
feelings, and my ideas--in other words, with  
my intimate self. I was loving this inti-  
macy, and wanting more. I guess the point  
at which I decided I was a lesbian was when  
I realized I wanted to make love to other  
women, not just hug them hello and goodbye  
or catch a quick pat on the back. At that  
time I felt defenses going up between me as  
lesbian and them as straight. I sensed a  
definite limit in how much they would give  
to me. Because I loved them, I wanted to  
sleep with them. They loved me but did not  
want to lead me on or give me any false im-  
pressions of their affection for me. They  
did not want to sleep with me. I began to  
feel one major difference standing between  
them and me: They wanted to sleep with men;  
I wanted to sleep with women. This dif-  
ference gave each of us her label. I became  
"lesbian." They became "straight women."

Women have asked me, "Don't you want to get  
rid of labels?" Yes, of course I do. But  
first I want to get rid of the things that  
cause us to use labels. For now, “lesbian"  
and "straight woman" have meaning to me.  
With a lesbian, I feel our love for one anoth-  
er could advance to any level. This is not  

to say that love between lesbians is perfect,  

always advancing on to higher and higher  
levels, both women desiring the same love  
experiences. It does mean that with each  
lesbian I meet, there is a chance that we  
may make love. I know that I cannot sleep  
with a straight woman. Consequently, I  
have felt that I could not put much energy  
into a relationship with a straight woman.  
Whatever ways we found to love one another  
would be blocked at a level which I have  
found fulfilling. Joni Mitchell wrote,  
"making love is touching souls." I was  

afraid I would fall in love with a straight  
woman, and we would not be able to touch  
souls.

I envision a world where there will be no  
labels "straight woman" or "lesbian." There  
we will relate on all levels that feel right,  
at the time that they feel right. We will  
touch souls if you and I both desire it. I  
will be true to myself. I will do the things  
that I want to do. You will also act as you  
truly wish. We will be honest with one  
another about which ways we want our relation-  
ship to grow. When we stop growing together,  
we will part without fear, still loving and  
respecting one another. For now, though, I  
do see fears in the way of our loving one  
another. I want to identify my own fears of  
straight women (By this term I also mean  
bisexual women.), so I can work through the  
fears. I think identifying them will help  
begin the process of eliminating them.

When talking to straight women, I feel fear,  
in both myself and them, associated with  
the question of men. I am a member of the  
Twin City Women Poets. Recently, in that  
group, we hassled because another lesbian  
and I wanted the group to sponsor a woman-  
centered poetry reading. By this we meant  
the poems would be about women, and only  
women could attend. The straight women  
poets said they would accept the idea of  
reading poems about women. But they would  
not accept keeping men out of the reading.  
I do not want to relate to men. I do not  
wish to read my poetry to men. I don't  
wish to deny other women the option of re-  
lating to men, but I want straight women to  
recognize my need not to deal with men.

As soon as the argument over the woman-cen-  
tered reading began, I felt my defenses  

go up against the straight woman poets.

Just to know that a woman has a man in her  
heart frightens me. I have tried to carry  
on sexual relationships with two women who  
considered themselves bisexual, and in both  
cases, I felt very threatened by the other  
woman's relationships with men.

The first woman and I knew one another for  
about six months before we made love. We  
had kissed a lot one night at the bar, and  
she had invited me home and then decided  
that she didn't want to make love with me  
because of a relationship she was having  
with a man. After we did finally consum-  
mate our relationship, we spent approxi-  
mately another six months of being friends  
and lovers, sometimes sleeping together and  
sometimes not. I felt that I was in a more  
vulnerable position than she because I saw  
myself as a lesbian. I was stuck there, as  
a lover of women, loving her in particular.  
She was free to abandon her lesbianism, and  
me, and to go on relating to men. She was  

never very comfortable thinking of herself as  
a lesbian, anyway. She once told me that  

she formed her closer and more honest re-  
lationships with women, but that she just  
liked sleeping with men.

The other straight woman whom I really cared  
for never was my lover. We talked a lot,  
kissed and hugged, fondled, and slept to-  

gether, but we never made love. She was  

continued on next page

feeling that she might be a lesbian. She  
said how beautiful women are. She talked  
about experiencing sensuality in what she  
thought would be a woman's way—not per-  
forming pre-established acts, but exploring  
sensations, textures, tastes. I learned a  
lot from this friend, and I would like to  
know her better. I hope our relationship  
can one day grow so that we can touch and  
give to each other on new levels. But for  
now, it has stopped growing. We do not  
even see each other as friends, only at  
meetings. I feel that the sexual pressure  
ruined our relationship. She was wondering  
whether she should sleep with me, while I  
wondered whether I would sleep with her. I  
was frustrated by not being able to show  
her, physically, my feelings for her. And  
she was not able, or ready, to consider  
herself a lesbian.  

One thing I've learned is that making love  
is not possible with all lesbians, not even  
with every lesbian that I care about. Each  
friendship seems to have a different physi-  
cal level. With some lesbian friends I  
barely touch. We hug hello and goodbye,  
and kiss on the cheek, or quickly on the  
lips. With other friends, I can walk hand-  
in-hand, rub noses, rock in one another's  
arms, and sleep face-to-face, embracing.  

I love each woman on a unique level, and I  
am learning to express my love for each  
woman in a unique and appropriate way. For  
one thing, I am learning that "sleeping  
with" doesn't necessarily mean "making  
love." And neither does kissing, fondling,  
or loving glances necessarily mean that I  
want genital sex from the relationship.  

I was so happy after the last women poets'  
meeting when an old friend and I cuddled.  

I hadn't seen her for a long time. I was  
glad to see her. I was loving her. And  

I felt like being hugged, so I sat on her  
lap. She put her arms around me. We  
rocked, and patted, and fondled, and talked  
for a while. I have been touching my lesbian  
friends in that way, but this was the first  
time I had had such a positive and easy phys-  
ical experience with a straight woman.  
Usually I feel unsatisfied by the physical  
affection straight women show me. It often  

comes as a quick pat, halting, and with the  
hand quickly jerked away. No lingering  
touches. I like to be warmed by being  
touched. I like to warm other women by  
touching them. And the part of touching  
that seems to warm me best is the lingering  
kind of touch, a touch that conveys a feel-  
ing of comfort and acceptance. I hope that  
straight women and lesbians will learn to  
touch one another warmly, and without fear  
of what that touching means.  

Such open relationships will take hard work.  
We are going to have to be honest with one  
another, and talk to one another a lot about  
our different lifestyles. For me, it is  
difficult to understand the reality of a  

straight woman's life. I can't really pic-  
ture what she feels as she relates to men.  
I don't know what kind of changes or growth  
she expects to experience with men.  

Married women, family women, women living  
with men and doing the housekeeping, even  
women living with men and working to improve  
the relationship between men and women,  

all these are lifestyles which are foreign  
to my experience. Since I left my parents'  
home in 1967, I have shared a home with a  
man only once, for three months, more than  
two years ago. Since then, my closer  
friends and my roommates have all been  
lesbians.  

To straight women my experience is foreign.  
When I told the Twin City Women Poets that  
I was living in a women's culture, one  
woman said, "but that's not reality." We  
each have our own reality. Part of me  

goes to work forty hours a week at an alien-  
ating job. Part of me pays rent to a male  
landlord. Part of me spends money at  
capitalist food stores when I don't feel  
like walking six blocks to a food co-op.  
But there is a large part of me that works  
as fast as I can to learn about women.  

That means to learn about myself, too. It  
means looking for my roots in the history  
of the Matriarchy. Woman-centered cultures.  
Goddesses. Witches. Herbalists. Midwives.  
Hecate. Artemis. Diana. Athena. Joan  

of Arc. Amelia Earhart. Wonder Woman.  
Billy Jean King. All of our past and  

Our strength  
that never has been completely buried,  

that was here all along. I want to be  
strong, and I want to be able to give  
strength to other women.  

I see our strength building. I spent  
Thanksgiving on a farm in Wisconsin. Four  
women friends of mine live there, and two  
children friends. The women are raising  
the children, seven horses, chickens, ducks,  
three dogs, two cats, bees, and one another.  
They have cut a pile of wood bigger than  
their house. They eat their own bees'  

honey and use the beeswax in a salve for  
their horses' hooves. As for dreams, one  
of the finest I've known was a reality:  
White Mare galloping across a crisp, frosty  
field with Marea astride. The horse is all  
white, muscled, the most spirited of all  
their horses. Only Marea can handle her  
riding bareback. Marea's hair and White  
Mare's magnificent tail were flying behind  
as they galloped. Marea looked serious,  
resolute, not at all frightened. I thought  
of Joan of Arc. Heroines. A dream living.  

There are lots of women's farms. I have  
heard of them in Washington, Oregon, Cal-  
ifornia, Colorado, Arkansas, and Minnesota.  
I see women learning to become self-suffi-  
cient for food and energy. I see this  
learning as a reality which will help bring  
about the larger reality of a woman's cul-  
ture. I see dreams growing in the city,  
too. The Lesbian Resource Center, Twin  
City Women Poets, Goldflower, So's Your Old  
Lady, the Elizabeth Blackwell women’s health  
clinic, Women's Counseling Service, the  
food co-ops, and the North Country dry  
goods store have all grown from the dreams  
of women.  

A good thing that happened recently at a  
women poets’ meeting was one woman saying  
we need to write more about our hopes and  
accomplishments, and less about our troubles  
and shortcomings. I agree. I think we  
will truly begin to love and energize one  
another when we start giving other women  
our dreams. Goodbye to Sylvia Plath. I  
don't want to listen to her madness any  
more. And as for Virginia Woolf in the  
river, I'd like to see her come wading back  

out, unburdening herself of stones by throw-  
ing them at her oppressors. I don't want  

to think about her sinking. I won't give  

in to madness or suicide, as long as there  
are women to love me, touch me, and feed me  
dreams.

by Eleanor Vincent

Louise Nevelson has been a working artist  
for 53 years. For three decades, although  
she produced work in a variety of media, she  
never made a sale. During those years she  
was ignored and sometimes treated with out-  
right hostility by what she calls the "art  
Mafia."

Now art critics are calling her the greatest  
living American sculptor. Despite her hard  
won fame and wealth, Nevelson remains a warm,  
gracious person. There is no pretense about  
her. She speaks openly about her commitment  
to feminism on a global and personal scale.

Nevelson has faced many difficult situations  
in her life, but her marriage and her aff-  
iliation with the Sidney Janis Gallery rank  
in her mind as the most destructive.

She was the first woman and the first Amer-  
ican sculptor ever shown by New York's pres-  
tigious Janis Gallery in the early sixties.  
She constructed three huge walls to be shown  
by Janis. The show was well received, but  
none of the pieces were sold. In debt to  
Janis for $20,000, she had to sell her  
studio-home in order to raise the money.

In the meantime, Janis held her works as  
collateral.

She succeeded in ransoming the wooden hos-  
tages, but the experience took a tremen-  
dous mental and physical toll. Years earl-  
ier she had been able to claim her total  
being by breaking up her marriage to con-  
centrate fully on her art.

The capacity to free herself from domination  
has played a crucial role in developing her  
individual and artistic consciousness. She  
and her work become stronger and more beau-  
tiful with age.

QUESTIONS and ANSWERS

Q: How have you escaped or redefined the role  
society creates for women?

A: For thousands of years, way back in the  
Bible, men controlled the universe. We speak  
about—and I do too, I forget and speak  
about—he, the he. God is he and right from  
God down and before God there was he. So  
naturally where there's the greater power  
you're going to have the rest subservient to  
it.

But I think some people are born with a feel-  
ing of independence; that they belong to them-  
selves. And then there's a conflict, because  
if you belong to yourself when you step out  
over the threshold into the so-called world,  
you're hit back. You're smacked this way,  
you're smacked that way, because you're not  
in the dominant position.

At this point, there are women in the high-  
est positions. They're given their jobs by  
men; say, even politically. Now you know I  
can't stand that president—that isn't it.  
But the president has given positions to wo-  
men. Of course those women he selected are  
worshipers of him. They support him. So  
those women, whom we would expect to be em-  
ancipated and help humanity just turn right  
around and are slaves again. In principle,  
if you are a lowly slave or a high-class  
slave, you're still in the process of being  
a slave. You see?

I think in our time, through awareness, the  
schools and education things are changing.  
No matter whether you accept or reject the  

conventional education, it does something.

It opens. I don't say it opens all areas,  
but it does enlighten you somewhere. So why  
would anyone expect women that go to our best  
schools to go into the kitchen and be satis-  
fied? It's utterly ridiculous.

If you are trained and you're equipped to be  
a great opera star, you're not going to give  
that up, because you like to sing and work  
at it and that's your life. You're not go-  
ing in the kitchen. So we have many more  
trained women and the sum total of the pool-  
ing of the consciousness of the awareness of  
all these things—not only in America, but  
the world over—causes them to awaken. I  
don't think it's easy, but there are some  
good heads that are battling and I'm very  
optimistic that it will change. It's grow-  
ing into it, it's bound to.

Now we had women's suffrage, we had other  
things, but never was there a group that saw  
it through. And even now there's a bit of a  
lull from a few years back. But it's es-  
tablished and we can all look forward to it  
being part of our way of life.

Don't forget that when there's a master and  
a slave, the master is also enslaved. So  
men will never be emancipated until they  
accept that every human being is a human be-  
ing and not be caught in just one part of  

the body.

Q: But you were not saying these things, but  
at least thinking them many, many years ago.

A: Well, I took them.  
I didn't think them. I had to take them for  
what I wanted to do. I knew I was gifted.  
Now you see we're taught to be modest and to  
be ladylike. Well, that's deadly. And es-  
pecially if you have this thing that I wanted  
so badly. And not only that, that's the way  
I wanted to live. And I didn't want to be  
hemmed in by anybody. I don't think the  
world's that big. So I just had to break, if  
you call it traditions, but I didn't even con-  
sider them. I just did.

I didn't say them and

Q: Was the price you paid to break out worth  
it?

A: I needed to claim my total being. That  
means time, thought, you know, it means that I  
wanted to be in control of myself. So that  
I'd be free to live my life as I could under-  
stand it.

Q: Well, you paid some kind of price for that.

A: Of course, you pay, but you see, darling,  
if you don't do that you pay a price that's  
probably more. I was married, I was  
getting abscesses and boils. The blood  

boils just like on a stove and you get these  
things. I got sciatica and I was crippled.

I left, I was miserable, and I went to Eur-  
ope to study and just crossing the ocean and  
having the lid taken off my head, they dis-  
appeared. But what would have happened if  

I was confined?

Now, when I say confined, it was a time of  
affluence and nice surroundings. So, there's  
something about us, that demands what we are.  
And it doesn't really matter so much our  
surroundings in a case like that, an extreme  
case. Because I knew my capacity I was itching  
all over because I was bottled up.

continued on page 21

continued from page 20  
Q: So in other words, the price you would  
have paid by not doing it would have been  
worse.  

A: I would have committed suicide. I would  
have cut my throat. And I would have wished  
the throat was a little bigger so I could  

cut it more.  

Q: What role does anger as a catalyst play  
in your work?  

A: I feel in retrospect that anger was very im-  
portant in my development. I used anger for  
my unfolding to the place I am. Yes. I  
don't dismiss it. I also think—now don't  
say that I said I was a drunkard—but I used  
alcohol in a medical way. Because when I  
was psychically so fatigued I found that I  
would never dismiss what liquor did for me.  

Now I don't say that I was alcoholic, but I  
think that it helped me. It was like if I  
was in a high spot and I wanted to really  
jump out of the window, then you land on a  
rope and then you don't touch bottom. Well,  
alcohol was able to do that for me. You see  
there were not as many pills, or I didn't  
know about them. Now we know in recent years  
about chemistry. Say people that go off.  
They give them things and they find it’s an  
imbalance in chemistry in the body.  

Maybe when you think and work as I did—I  
depleted the body. Now I would probably go  
to a doctor and get a shot. Or I would go  
to a doctor that would give me these things  
that would quiet me. But at that time I  
don't think it existed and so I did it an-  
other way, maybe a more primitive way.  

Q: If you were angry about something, would  
that help you to work or drive you to work?  

A: I think it did. You see your glands are  
very stimulated and you're in a pitch where,  
yes, you have to work it off. Some people,  
like in the country, would probably chop  
wood in order to relax. But I did it my way  
which included a great deal of physical  
labor. No one has said it to my knowledge,  
but I maintain that there's great intellect  
in physical labor. I'm sure that I learned  
a great deal out of physical labor in my  
work. I would not dismiss it.  

In our times in sculpture we can make a  
little drawing or a little cardboard ma-  
quette and then it is blown up in a foundry.  
Now, I do my work myself to a great degree  
because I like it and I identify with it.  
It's very living for me; I live with it.  

And having studied modern dance, when I move  
with it the rhythms and all of that plays a  
very important part in my consciousness.  
That for me is living.  

Q: Do you still dance at all?  

A: Oh, yes, yes. I do the whole works.  

Q: How do you get into your work? What sort  
of process do you go through?  

A: Every time I approach a project I shy  
away like a horse, because it is a new  
thing. You've lived another day. Even  
from one minute to another, we're changing.  
If you sit here 24 hours a day or a life-  
time, every second there is a change.  

Night doesn't come in a minute and dawn  
doesn't come in a minute. It's gradual.  
Through the day it's moving a little bit.  
You don't see it, it's so slow to our eye.  

Our consciousness is the same. Let me say  
that I finished something and sat down to  
have lunch. I went through a whole thing of  
lunch, picking up the cup, the fork and so  
forth. There's great activity. By the time  
I come back (to work) I'm already an hour  
older. And already, I'm not quite the same.  
People never think about that—they miss,  
they jump, they don't think.  

And say, you, or whoever; I've had a dozen  
television and radio and newspaper inter-  
views here. Do you think I'm the same per-  
son that left New York? Don’t you think  
that that's already a world of experience  

in a few days? If you think of the phil-  
osophical things, the creative things, going  
to the museums and seeing things and being  
here. You could write ten volumes on what  
I've done here just by coming.  

So when I come to the work again I'm always  
I, but I've added to the consciousness.  
Every minute you get a little older so you  
touch it a little differently. And anyway,  
don't the books promise us that the compen-  
sation for old age is wisdom? You see?  
So, you don't get old in a minute and you  
don't get wisdom in a minute.  

A WOMAN’S MIND  

Q: You've said that your works are defin-  
itely the product of a feminine mind and  

that there's a difference between a man's  
mentality and a woman's mentality and the  

way a man's works and the way a woman's  
works. How does your work reflect that diff-  
erence, that woman's mind?  

A: Well, first, let me say that there are  
women, there are artists, that will not acc-  
ept this. But I only think I'm  
a woman. I'm not a man. I have all the or-  
gans that belong to the female sex and I've  
executed them from that point of view.  

Look, a man and a woman get together. The  
very position...or two people get together.  
Say I was standing up and facing you this  

way. You'd be looking here and I'd be look-  
ing there. Already we have a different per-  
spective. And it cannot be the same perspec-  

tive because of our whole makeup.  

And if you happen to like being a female,  
and if you're attractive and you get the  
attention you want and you've had a ball on  
that level, then you want to retain that fem-  
ininity. It's only, well, people that have  
not been successful somehow being female  
that want to switch and vice-versa. But I'm  
not going into the sex problem at this mo-  
ment. I rather like all the exposure of sex  
because I think we were educated so badly.  

Now, another thing, before I finish. For in-  
stance, I'm a great-grandmother and I'm not  
going to change because I've lived with this  
so long. But why should we be self-conscious  
of certain parts of our bodies? Why can't  
we claim our bodies? But we don't, I don't.  
With all my awareness and all my promiscuity,  
there's still something I don't claim. And  

I resent it in myself. It's too late for me  
to encompass it. But I would like to see  
people accept themselves from head to toe and  
also the aura around them.  

We'll come back to the femininity. I know  
that men will not hammer as I hammer. I  
know they have machinery. You see they were  
born that way. That's the way. The men were  
the carpenters and the men were the engineers.  

continued on page 22

NEVELSON continued from page 21

and the men were this and the men were that.  
So, when they do a thing, they do it almost  
professionally. They'll bang and pound. And  
I think it's a riot. I have people, men who  
work with me, for instance, and they think if  
the thing is heavy they take a big nail and,  
oh, wow. Actually, the harder it is, we have  
used pins, you know, these pins, and were  
able to penetrate because if you're taking  
hard with hard it's almost impossible.  

Because do men use a voice like a female,  
if women are women and men are men? So why  
should I superimpose in labor and in work  
and change who I am? The work is a total  
reflection of the person that made it.  

Now, of course, a lot of people, even  
critics in New York, have said, ‘she works  
like a man.' I wouldn't have known it was a  
woman that did it.'  

Well now, you see, who says that we're the  
weaker sex? We're different, but not the  
weaker sex. We were in a society that  
didn't permit us to blossom. But let them  
permit us to. But we have to take it and  
blossom. I don't want anyone to permit me  
that is also a slave mentality. I have  
chosen from childhood to live, or project,  

a life that I understand. And no one has to  
tell me.  

Now, I got an assistant by accident—I al-  
ways had men work with me—but this girl  
graduated Yale in art and she was a friend  
of a young man who was working with me. He  
had to go away and she stayed on. I let her  
stay because I travel and I wanted not to be  
in the house alone. So she stayed on.  

Q: Is this Diana MacKown?  

A: That's right. Put her in, too, she'll  
love it and send me a copy, she'll love this.  
Well, because she's neglected when people  
come to the house.  

But I have never felt anything but female.  
Now, if the things look big, well, so what?  
So I have more energy than a lot of men  
that haven't.  

So I let her stay, but I didn't let her work  
with me. In other words, you see, I don't  
make drawings of things, but I compare right  
on there; to get many things, but particular-  
ly the immediacy, which I believe in a great  
deal. I don't believe in churning, I believe  
in action.  

Q: This is my own interpretation, but your  
life seems to make a pattern. You have a  

few difficult situations in your life. You  
have your marriage and you have the terrible  
thing with Janis and your things being held  
hostage.  

A: That's right, you're absolutely right.  

So, after she stayed in the house awhile, I  
said all right, I'm going to let you work.  
And she did. And she hammered. She was  
divine. And I said 'Did you take a course  
in carpentry at Yale?' And she said, 'no.'  
And I said, ‘did you ever do this work?'  

She said, 'no.'  

Q: And you somehow break out of these  
things. You break out of these dominated  
situations and you get free and each time  
you do it you come back better than before,  
you're strong, your work is stronger.  

How do you do that?  

SELF REPORT CARD  

Now both her parents were professional mus-  
icians of high quality. And I said, ‘well,  
how do you know to take this kind of nail  
for this and this kind of nail for that?'  

A: Let me tell you before I start this,  

I say that I have a record for myself. You know  
see, in school you have a report card. Well, I  
have had her since, since 10 years. Isn't that fantastic? In other  
words, she wasn't working like a carpenter.  
She was working through music, she was com-  
posing. That's 10 years ago, and I still am  
in awe of a statement like that. I think  

it's great. And the results show it.  

Out of this marriage, I have a son and grand-  
children and all. That's fine. But I can-  
not be appeased with all of it. Because I  
had my eyes wide open in both cases. There  
were things that both had that I wanted and  
it isn't very nice, but that's the way it  
was. And I live with that. Now, I didn't  
murder anyone and I didn't hurt anyone.  

But for my kind of thinking I would have  
given myself a hundred plus if it weren't  
for those.  

Now, I wanted some years ago a circle, like  
a drawing, like a line circle in wood to  

put in a box. Of course, I didn't know how  
to get it, but I knew if I could find the  
thinnest wood, a strip, I could put it in  
the bathtub and keep tying it as it got wet-  
ter and wetter. And so I went to the lumber  
yard and did get what you call clapboards.  
They put them in buildings, you know, before  
they put the plaster. That's about as thin  
as you can get them. And I took one home  
and I did put it in the tub and I tied it  
and tied it. And it got to the point where  
I could use it and then I did a few like  
that.  

Isn't that funny? Now, you say, did I have  
such a high standard? I didn't think of it  
as high standard, but I did know in my con-  
sciousness, and I think every human being  

does, that, that is not for me.  

Well, no man would be patient like that.  
They'd do something else, but they wouldn't  
nurse it. This is really a feminine thing.  
And even the way when I hammer. I knew men  
don't do it that way. I know that myself.  

But, you see, when I married I only kind of  
excused it. You can say I have all the com-  
pensation because I have this gorgeous son  
who is a sculptor and is adorable to me.

And the grandchildren are great and all. But  
that move was made knowing that I shouldn't  

I was very young and I was in school and I  
thought of myself as not being too bright.  
Very attractive, but not too bright. So I  
had not lived. I had no experience, be-  
cause in the country (Rockland, Maine) I  
was young and then there was no one around.  
I was already dreaming of other things, so  
I wasn't interested in local color.  

I was not seasoned enough to believe in my-  
self. I thought, ‘well, there's a world,  
they get married and who am I to think this?'  
So I didn't trust it. But after that marr-  
iage, I took the reins in my hands and I  
never permitted the outside to have influ-  
ence.  

Now, with Janis, I just wanted to croak. Be-  
cause I felt I had fallen into the most heli-  
sh pit in the world. If they say there's  

a hell, that was more. You know, I lost my  
voice and I used to have to get up in the  
morning about six and learn to walk. It  

was that bad. I lost a lot of weight, too.  

I had people, like collectors, that were  
friends of mine, I had rich people. There  
wasn't one that offered. I was in a spot.  
My overhead is big. And not one ever—  
well, yes one did in a way, but not of that  
type—came and asked me could they be of  
any help.  

Well, what do you think that did? It made  
me stronger. It pushed me right back into  
myself and I dismissed it. You see, it's  
funny because I speak to you and you might  
say, well, I'm bitter. I'm not bitter be-  
cause I have achieved for myself and for my  
wellbeing a great deal of living. So that's  
fine. But it only made me go back into my-  
self.  

I love people, but they are like you eat  
strawberry pie, you know? They're not the  
meat of my life. And I don't think there's  
a soul on earth who is. You see, I have my  
own interpretation of friendship. I have my  
own interpretation of the humanities and  

the relationships.  

I had to, in order to survive and do what I  
feel was my lot to do. For me, only for me.  

If you talk like I am speaking to you, three  
dimensionally, you see we're brought up that  
you bow to your elders and that you do this  
and that. That's something else. Do you  
get the message?  

The older I get the more I feel I sit on my  
own seat and push back like this on my own  
back. And I don't bow to anyone.  

Now, I don't mean that I have to be arrog-  
ant, but I mean there's nobody to bow to,  
only to yourself. Look in the mirror and  
bow to yourself.  

@: You have played a role of establishing  
precedents for other women artists. You  
have been a pioneer in many senses. Do  
you think that there will be other women  

that will have the courage to follow after  
you?  

A: Let me tell you this. I think there  
will, but let me explain something. If  
Caruso wanted others to follow him, they  
would have the equivalent of that voice.  
Now, I wear myself out. I'm 74 and I wear  
myself out. And I get tired of all.  

I was born with ability and energy. And  
so, if another woman could match the ener-  
gy, I think they could. But that depends.  
Or maybe they won't need this. There are  
other ways of expressing creativity,  
besides the hard physical labor. So, I  
think, yes.  

Q: Where do you go from here?  

A: Oh my god, dear, just where I am. You  
can polish 'til doomsday. You see, I  
don't have to move a great deal, on the con-  
trary, it would be stupid for me. Because  
once you're in there and it's right, then,  
my god, it's unlimited, unlimited, and  
especially in our time with technology and  
the new materials. It isn't one thing,  
whole things burst open. Look, one rose has  
so many petals. And, my god, more than  
that, if you leave it, it gives other roses  
and more petals. But you don't become a  
violet, you're still a rose, you're true  

to that and then you multiply.  

iz  
:  
Ly  
[B  
&  
©  
z  

AYP  
HE,  
WALKER

on the cover...

A 1919 photograph of Vita Sackville-West,  
writer, gardener and lover of men and  
women. Inside, see the review of Portrait  
of a Marriage, a book written by Vita and  
her son Nigel Nicolson about her vacillating  
affair with Violet Trefusis.

GOLD FLOWER  
P.O. BOX 8341  
LAKE STREET STATION  
MPLS MN 55408  

o  
Lu  
:  
tL.  
a)  
sel  
O  
Oo  
e  

address  
city / state  

GOLD FLOWER Raho  
P.O. BOX 8341 PAID  
LAKE STREET STATION rune No sane  

MPLS MN 55408

"Gold Flower." Gold Flower, Nov-Dec 1973. Archives of Sexuality  
and Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/JYXPYV440834830/  
AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI.  
Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.