co

} e Suffragist Trying to Arouse her Sisters

| Central figure - Suffragist sees a
' Jo right-Vanity at her feet lies Prostitution
left is dodging Conventionality
Behind Conventionality is Wage-earner.

DM Like to Pay ae and eta

August 1973 vol.2 no.5

@ HOUSE OF ART. N.Y.

“ALL IS VANITY”

©

Happy Hooking  
Prostitution Two Views  

Diana L. Antolik  

When two authors approach any subject, be it brushing teeth or doing wash; to solving  
world economic problems or the evolution of a species, there are bound to be differences.  
Differences of style, viewpoint, and understanding of the subject matter the author is  

to get across.  

This is an accepted fact in writing. If not, there wouldn't be so many books in exist-  
ence today. But when both of the authors are women dealing with the same subject, in this  
case prostitution, one of them is most likely to come out of the acceptance duel with a  

black eye.  

Hollander  

Xaviera! How well such a strange name  
is remembered! And how most of us remem-  
ber the first book Ms. Hollander brought  
into being, The Happy Hooker.  

"Xaviera! Her continuing adventures..."  
“The Girl Who's Gone Wrong--And Loves It  
-~-Is Back!" Xaviera Hollander is back  
with another scorcher, is only because of  
the electric pink cover and title Xaviera  
(Warner Paperback Library, 428 pp. $1.50)  

"As in The Happy Hooker I've written in  
the first person as though I am talking to  
the reader as a friend; a personal inti-  
mate conversation," Hollander states in a  
blurb on the back of her book. It is an  
intimate conversation, but I have the feel-  
ing that the most intimate thing that passes  
between the two of us is my money.  

The dealings in  
prostitution that  
Hollander writes  
about is a life  
style that is very  
easy, relaxed, and  
very profitable.  

There is no real  

reference to drugs,  

except in passing,  

pimps, "underworld  

dealings", or the  

real hassles with  

the police or the legal systems.  

These omissions which give the book an un-  
realistic fantasy-like glow. For with all  
the fun and games, logic tells anyone that  
there should be a little rain falling some-  
where.  

The tone of the book is light and there  
are many incidents where, (since this is a  
personal story it is all quite possible)  
the people and interactions do not follow  
any sequence. The only help the reader has  
in solving her "what-is-really-happening"  
bafflement is an Editor's note that states:  
"The material in this book is not being  
presented in any specific chronological  
order. Some of the things occurred at the  
same time. Such is the style of Ms. Hol-  
lander's life." And such, also is the style  
of her writing. Disjointed to a point of  
distraction.  

The book takes life, women, relation-  
ships, and men with a grain of salt. There  
is not even the slightest indication that  
any of it is real. There is no substance  
to any person besides Hollander herself.  
So one can begin to wonder about the val-  
idity of the book by the second chapter.  

If joking, prostitution, and pink covers  
and shocking come-ons are sellable to  
the public, then Xaviera will skyrocket.  

Millett  

"I also found that the knowledge of an-  
other's experience places vast moral re-  
sponsibility upon you, since the very  
knowledge of another, if deep and authentic,  
constitutes great obligations.”  

"...So that the experience of all women  
everywhere becomes, in a sense, our com-  
munal property, a heritage we bestow upon  
each other, the knowledge of what it has  
meant to be female—a woman in this man's  
world."  

With these two passages, as with the rest  
of the introductions in Kate Millett's  
The Prostitution Papers: A Candid Dialogue  
(Avon Books, 160 pp. $1.25), are laid the  
basic groundwork for what I feel is one  
of the most honest works on prostitution  
to be written in a long time, if ever.  
The book is divided  
into four sections  
with a different  
woman speaking in  
each.  

Though the variat-  
ions presented by  
each woman are dif-  
ferent because of  
the diverse in-  
volvement, there is  
a very strong under-  
current that affirms  
that for each woman the basic script remains  
the same while the sets and specific dia-  
logue change.  

Unlike most books that deal with "touchy"  
areas, Millett does not hide what either  
herself, Liz Schneider, a lawyer, or "M" and  
"J", two former prostitutes, have to say be-  
hind some high-falutin academic rhetoric of  
charts and figures. But instead deals with  
the women involved and their reactions at  

a personal level.  

Millett serves as a buffer, sounding board,  
and reporter. Even though this is "her" book,  
she keeps her personal insights and comments  
well out of the way of what the story of  
the other women is. Her reporting is of  
a recognizable style, editing down the  
“authors" until the written language is similar  
to what was actually spoken.  

And what is spoken by all women is grim.  
Yes, at one time in the lives of both "J"  
and "M" there was a time when selling your-  
self was not all that bad, as they both state  
it was even slightly rosy for a time. But  
it all changes into the "underground" of  
drugs, police, and total alienation from al-  
most every part of a somewhat normal daily  
existence.

“Wisdom from the Pain”

by Julie Landsman

QUESTION: "Since you have written 'I am Woman' and since you seem to represent the women's liberation movement, what is your true opinion of us male chauvinist pigs?"

REPLY: SOUL

"Oh, I think there is some hope for

Breakthrough

The Helen Reddy Show included this kind of exchange every week it was on the air. Like Ms. magazine, the show was slick, controversial and extremely well done. And, hopefully, like Ms. magazine, it got to more and more people as the summer wore on. I am not one of those who feel that because something is popular, then it must be of poor quality. I do have friends who refuse to read books on the best sellers list simply because “everyone" is reading them. (“Everyone" in this context sounds kind of like "the plebians"). The more people who saw the Helen Reddy Show, the better. As I watched Ms. Reddy hold up her fist and say something like "keep fighting, sisters", I felt that an important development had occurred in the history of the media. Beside the fact that the show had a woman producer and a large number of female crew members, which are notable breakthroughs in themselves, what actually went on in front of the cameras seemed even more remarkable.

Natural Style

There was Helen Reddy herself. She appeared in marked contrast to every other singer or variety show hostess I've seen on similar productions. Unlike Cher, of Sonny and Cher, she did not depend on fantastic clothes or wild hairstyles or undulating movements for her appeal. She was natural in every sense of the word, from her straight hair, to her quiet singing style, to the way she held her body. Ms. Reddy spoke directly to the audience without a hint of coyness or pretension. As I listened to her musical speaking voice, I wondered if an American performer could do as well. Perhaps, there is something in her Australian background that enables Helen Reddy to have her own show without becoming encumbered with false glamour, flashy sets or the skin-tight gowns of almost every other female singer.

Women Get Together

The show itself was different from any other. It was warm, chatty, funny and touching, and it was nothing like the sappy sugary stuff that characterized the Glen Campbell approach on a similar set. The guests included Brenda Vaccaro, the Pointer Sisters, Ruth Buzzi, and, in what seemed a historical event, Gloria Steinem. As I sat watching Ms. Steinem read a biting feminist newscast (When the Republicans hired call girls to infiltrate the Democratic Convention as spies, they increased their female employment rate by 150%) I had to keep reminding myself: this is prime time TV: As I sat watching Betty Wright singing "I Am Woman", I kept thinking how beautifully this defied all those tiring articles about how black and white women couldn't get together.

Questions

But the part of the show that seemed unusual to me was when Helen and her guests sat on the stage and answered questions: "When did you stop wearing a bra?" "Don't you think women want to stay in the home?" Ms. Reddy and her guests answered these questions directly and without embarrassment. On the final show, during this part, a pimply-faced boy asked, nervously, if he could come up and kiss each of the women. He was told he could do so and, somehow as I watched him kiss each woman on the cheek, it was not a corny scene or an obscene one.

Touching Lives

I'm not sure a TV show can ever reach people or touch them deeply. That screen separating us and the performers prevents us from experiencing anything live, as in a theater. I am sure that this particular show made me laugh a lot, made me feel better about myself, and a few times, moved me. I admit I am biased. I have been strongly influenced by the women's liberation movement. I support it whole-heartedly. Finally, a show came along that appealed to this bias. It's about time! Sparkling kitchen floors, spotless dishes and giggling sink scrubbers never have appealed to me. So, I guess I deserve this show. All women and men deserve more shows like the Helen Reddy Show. She has come the closest to using television in a non-manipulative way. This demonstrates, to me, that when strong, independent women get some power in this media, they can humanize it, using it in creative ways, perhaps even to touch people's lives.

MON -FRI  
Noon-- #3  
(sex. 12-6)  

FEMINIST LITERATURE  
NEW LOCATION  
gov W. LAKE ST:  

Mpls. 55407  
phone Fan-F4O7

Credit Where Due

An Interview with Betty

These are times when refer-
ences to women's "lib" and
"libbers" bespatter our daily
newspapers, yet our ageless
institutions continue grind-
ing their wheels as if the
myth of the weaker sex were
still intact. Credit grant-
ing institutions are among
the most oblivious.

New credit rulings went
into effect on August 1
which should sharpen their
sense of reality. I talked
with Betty Howard, Director
of the Women's Division of
the State Department of Human
Rights to find out what we
can expect from these provi-
sions.

HOW DO THE NEW RULINGS APPLY
TO WOMEN?

Actually, they're intended
to apply to anyone who has
experienced discrimination on
the basis of credit because
of sex. Obviously, women
have been the people who
have suffered most when they
seek credit. But it's pos-
sible that the "other sex"
might suffer too.

Women who are seeking cre-
dit will be treated fairly
under the new provisions if
the people who are dealing
with her know and abide by
the law...and we certainly
hope they will.

Women and men under the new
provisions must be treated
fairly on the basis of their
ability to meet the estab-
lished criteria, and not with
regard to sex which has hap-
pened in the past. And mari-
tal status too has affected
an individual's right, or op-
portunity, rather, to obtain
credit.

ON WHAT BASIS HAVE WOMEN BEEN
DENIED CREDIT IN THE PAST?

I can tell you what was
said to me a year ago when I
was interviewing some major
credit grantors and officials
of the credit bureaus. When
I asked a similar question,
it appears that people who
grant credit, and the large
majority of these are males,
assume that a woman's parti-
cipation in the labor force
is a temporary thing that ex-
ists only prior to her having
a family. This assumption is
contrary to the statistics of
the Department of Labor of
the United States Government
which indicate that over 40%
of the labor force consists

of women who work an average
of 25 years, whether or not
they're married and whether
or not they have children.

At that time I expressed
the thought that men, parti-
cularly those engaged in the
credit granting business,
needed to be brought into the
twentieth century. One of
the things that was said to
me that is particularly...
amazing in the adjective I'll
use...is that if a woman was
in her childbearing years,
and particularly if she was
younger and attractive, her
chances for getting credit
were reduced correspondingly.
I see by the look on your
face that you react as I do
to this comment.

You know, at the time I
said, "Have they ever heard
about the Pill, family plan-
ning?" Actually I suppose
they have, because many women

(when applying for mortgages
with their husbands) have
been asked to sign a state-
ment describing the type of
contraceptive being used and
saying that they do not in-
tend to have children. Can
you imagine anything more
demeaning?

ARE THEY OBLIGATED TO SIGN
STATEMENTS LIKE THAT?

People have been asked to
sign them. Obligated? You
know, when you want a loan
and the guy that's going to
give it to you sits there and
asks you these questions....
Now, that would be illegal,
unless they ask the same
question of men. You must
understand that when you're
dealing with sex discrimina-
tion what you're saying is
that one sex cannot be treat-

ed differently from the other.

So if a major lending insti-
tution would persist in ask-
ing that question of women,
it would also have to ask it
of men. Then it wouldn't be
discriminatory. Well, you
and I both know that they're
not going to ask men that
question.

TAKE THE CASE OF A WOMAN WHO
IS IN THE MIDDLE OF A LONG,
UNRESOLVED DIVORCE. HOW
MIGHT HER UNSTABLE MARITAL
STATUS AFFECT HER APPLICATION
FOR CREDIT?

Now, fortunately, if she
deserves credit and can dem-
onstrate her financial abil-
ity to meet her obligations,

By Susan
Cushman

Howard

her marital status should

not affect her credit ability.
But it's happened in the past
and I assume that it's going
to take some time for all of
the people who are in the po-
sition of granting credit to
become familiar with the new
provisions and to accept them.
There may be some built-in
resistance to people who
have operated

resistance to people who

have operated under another
set of beliefs for a long,
long time. In other words,
we're bucking up against tra-
dition, the same old stereo-
types.

But what has happened in
the past, and I was told this
by both major credit bureaus,
is that no matter how long
the woman had been married
and how involved she was in
handling the financial obli-
gations of her family and how
good that credit rating was,
probably due to her efforts...
if she were divorced, this
good credit rating would go
with the husband. She would
be a non-person as far as
credit was concerned. Now,
for the sad part...if the
family had had a bad credit
rating, this would follow her
to her new file.

WOULD IT FOLLOW THE HUSBAND
ALSO?

Supposedly, although I do
know of a case where the
husband went bankrupt. He
had a business which failed,
while the wife had a profes-
sional job. She undertook
the responsibility of paying
off the debts. That's some-
thing people don't under-
stand. A wife is responsi-
ble for her husband's bad
debts just as the husband is
responsible for his wife's
bad debts. You never hear a-
bout that, but it's the law
in Minnesota.

What happened in this par-
ticular case is that the hus-
band went through bankruptcy
and was able to open up an-
other business with the slate
wiped clean. Her record re-
mained with all these blem-
ishes because she had under-
taken to repay all the debts.
So there's been a tremendous
number of inequities which
hopefully will not occur
under the new law.

There are two sections of
this law that apply to people
being able to obtain credit
without discrimination based

(continued on page 11)

WOMEN'S CLEARINGHOUSE, women's  
news from the Twin Cities  
broadcast by women. Tuesday  
and Friday, 6:39 pm, KUOM.  
MICHAEL KORDA discusses his  
book on "Male Chauvinism: How  
it Works." 6:30 pm; Sept. 4,  
KUOM (770 ke).  

DANCE  

KATA NOVAK DANCERS, 10:30 am  
Aug. 21, East Lake Library;  
2:30 pm, Aug. 22; Nokomis Libra-  
ry; 2:30 pm, Aug. 29, Roose-  
velt Library; 2:30 pm, Aug.  
30, Sumner Library.  

FILM  

IMAGES OF WOMEN IN AMERICAN  
MOVIES, a film series sponsor-  
ed by the University Film  
Society. Coming this fall.  

On September 7, 8, 9, 14, 15,  
21, 22, 23, 28, 29 and 30  
at Pillsbury Waite Cultural  
Arts Center, The Alive and  
Trucking Theater will present  
two one-act plays.  

“The Exception and the Rule"  
by Bertolt Brecht, and “Ally  
Ally All Come Free", an ex-  
ploration into social dynam-  
ics as taught to us by the  
games we play as children.  

"The Exception and the Rule"  

was written by Brecht in 1932.  
It tells the story of a work-  
er who, while trying to ful-  

fill the responsibilities of  

his job, is brutalized and  

THEATER  

I, SAID THE FLY, an original  
play about vaudeville by June  
Havoc, world premiere at The  
Guthrie Theater, Sept. 17.  
Runs in repertory through  

the Guthrie season.  

ART  

BECKY SAUDE OYNES, oils.  
August, 1455 W. Lake St.  

Thru  

MARILYN BROWN BENATA, water-  
colors. August, Windsor Gal-  
lery, 5017 France Ave. S.  

ELEANOR CONRAD, oils; KATHY  
VASELY, acrylics. Through  
August, Minnesota Artists’  
Association, 1012 Marquette.  

HELEN TAYLOR, watercolors;  
LAVERN ROSE, oils. September,  
Minnesota Artists Assn, 1012  
Marquette.  

eventually killed. He is  
killed, not because he fought  
back, but because he didn't.  
In our interpretation of the  
play, we are especially sen-  
sitive to the plight of wom-  
en involved in the story, to  
add our feminist perspective  

to Brecht's story of oppress-  
ion.  

In "Ally Ally All Come Free",  
the company explores chil-  
dren's games; red light,  
green light; musical chairs;  
duck, duck, goose; king on the hill;  
and others to bring to the  
surface, as only theater can,  
some of the social dynamics  
which shape our society.  

KATHE KOLLWITZ, prints. Minne-  
sota Museum of Art, 305 St.  
Peter St., St. Paul.  

MOREEN KAPLAN, paintings. West  
Bank Gallery, 415 Cedar Ave.  

JENNY DE BLOOT, paintings and  
watercolors. Powers, Nicollet  
Mall; Public Health Center,  
Sinclair Ave. S.  

DIANE WILLIAMS, drawings.  
West Bank Art Building, U of  
Minnesota.  

JOAN HODGES,  
MARCIA HOLMES  

watercolors;  

JOAN HODGES, MARCIA HOLMES,  
MARY CAMPBELL, watercolors;  
FLORA MAZZOTTA MCCRACKEN,  
acrylics. Through August,  
Southdale Plaza, Edina.  

"We are not here to tell  
people that,  

"The best things in life  
are free”  

"Everything's coming up  
roses"  

"If you don't have a  
dream, how you gonna make  
a dream come true?"  

But we are here, rather, to  
awaken ourselves to the real  
world and take control of  
our lives."  

The Alive and Trucking  
Theater

Janis the

osededefeteotetet SoS

At 2:30 a.m. my eyelids are
gritty and I can listen to
Janis Joplin sing "Bobby Mc
Gee." I respond without de-
fenses to the rough beauty of
the woman's voice.

I have long been a Joplin par-
tisan and inferred her char-
acter traits from her music:

aes

etatatatate’
SoS

eseaececesese estate netecet®

But familiarity
tinges the waif image with
the drab
egocentrism and selfishness.
The reader of Buried Alive

(Myra Friedman)

vulnerability, defiance and
lovelessness.

with Janis

coloration of

William Morr-

"Woman needs man and man
must have his mate but
how does a lesbian express
her love for a woman in song?

For centuries popular and
folk music has reflected the
predominantly "heterosexual/
sexist world," Joan Capra,
member of the "Family of Wo-
man" band said recently.

"Family of Woman" is a les-
bian-feminist band comprised
of four Chicago area women:
Joan Capra, Judy Handler, Lin-
da Shear and Ella Szekely.
Two technicians, Susan Kahn
and Michelle Brody, also tra-
vel with the band.

Capra said the women "hope
to use (our) politics and
music combined as a tool to
validate lesbian lifestyles.

"We play for women—
straight or lesbian. But
sometimes we have no say. On
some college campuses we can't
discriminate and men are all-
owed, although we prefer not."

Capra is a classically tra-
ined violinist. Shear sings
and plays guitar and piano,
Handler sings and plays lead
guitar and Ella Szekely is
the drummer.

None of the band suffers
any conflict between art and
politics.

"We hope to use our poli-
tics and music combined as a
tool to validate lesbian life
styles."

Capra added that two of
the women in the group write
music and "Family of Woman"
collects original music writ-
ten by women throughout the
country.

“Family of Woman” Fills Musical
Void for Lesbian Feminist

Friedman Captures Janis the Performer

Woman Proves Elusive .... Mary Hastings

ow & Company, 333 pp., $7.95)
will become very familiar
with the details of Janis'
life, her attitude toward her
art, friends and lovers.

Friedman, who handled Janis'
press relations from 1963 to
her death in 1970,
an exhaustive study of an
American Rock idol who was
also an American woman.

In the past six weeks, count-
less reviews of Buried Alive
have been published = =

presents

Some reviews approach the
biography as the history of

To supplement original wo-
men's music, Capra continued,
“Family of Woman" plays "more
or less traditional songs
other people have written.”

“We do Dylan's 'Just Like
a Woman'; we change the words
so it would be appropriate.

The band regularly performs
"White Bird" and "Let Them
Talk."

“We try to make all of our
songs applicable to lesbians.

One of the band's members
wrote a song dealing with the
problem of rape. Another wo-
man's song relates the degrad-
ation women feel "just being
hassled on the street."
Yet another song tells of the
oppression of women in mental
institutions.

The band engages in dial-
ogues with its audiences.

Capra said “we usually in-
troduce our songs with raps
or reading women's poetry.

We do 'Season of the Witch'
and before that we give some-
what of a historical rap a-
bout witches."

Although "Family of Woman"
offers love songs for women,
lesbian/feminist bands are
rare.

"The New Haven Women's Lib-
eration Rock Band" is active,
but "The Chicago Women‘s Lib-
eration Rock Band" recently
quit.

"We're the only up front
lesbian group. There are oth-
er lesbian bands but they don't
advertise it."

a musical/social phenomenon.
Other reviewers conceive of
this biography as a balanced,
reasonable rebuttal to a
couple of lurid, first-person
memoirs by Joplin "friends."

I planned to approach this
review from a strictly femi-
nist viewpoint. I hoped to
discover the extent of the
damage done to Janis Joplin
by our world's expectations
of a woman.

‘Certainly, Janis was “cursed"
with enough traits that our
society condemns in a woman:
Unfortunately, however, it is
impossible to assume a strid-
ently feminist viewpoint when
contemplating the slow sui-
cide of Janis Joplin.

As Friedman points out, the
singer had many opportunities
for love. She drove away
many sincere friends in fav-
or of sickening junkies and
"pretty boys." She chose to
shoot heroin and drink to
excess. Then she gravitated
to uncaring and uncritical
companions.

Janis possessed many of the
traits of the performer.
When Friedman would walk down
a New York street with her,
she noted Janis' eyes

seeking a glint of recog-
nition of hundreds of pass-
ing eyes.

By the end of her life Janis
was no different from many
performer-idols--she was a
selfish, mean-willed person,
with a pathological inabili-
ty to ever consider anyone
else's comfort above her own.
And she was mightily talented.

I never saw her perform live.
But Friedman's book makes
clear that Janis' moments of
true living occurred on the
stage. There she found the
substance she lacked in her
private life.

Friedman has presented a fas-
cinating picture of the 1960s
rock world; she has detailed
the moods and moves of Janis
Joplin but she has not been
able to give any satisfac-
tory explanation for Janis'
self-hating life.

This failure occurs pre-
cisely because there is no
explanation for Janis Jop-
lin's defects. She suffered
mightily because of un-
realistic demands made on
her womanhood. But many
women have suffered so and
are not selfish monsters.
The fairest assessment of
Janis Joplin as an American
artist and woman is that she
was alive when she sang, and
the rest is only temporarily
significant.

How to Have Intercourse...
Without Getting Screwed

Part VII

Female Sexuality: A Feminist
Perspective

This treatise is the outgrowth of my fem-
inist curiosity about the quality of hetero-
sexual relationships in Western society.
What is the fundamental nature of male-fe-
male relationships as enacted too often
through sexual intercourse? Why do women
engage in coitus?

Substantive factors differentiate the
coital experience for men and for women. In
coitus, men experience a definite physical
release that is usually accompanied by a
more intensive orgasmic release. In short,
men come. Women, on the other hand, do not
necessarily experience orgasm, do not always
come. Statistics vary from the initial Kin-
sey study, which reports that only one-third
of American women experience orgasm during
their first year of marriage, to a recent
study published in Psychology Today of a
supposedly enlightened, sexually free audi-
ence, which reports that 20 percent of the
women never achieve orgasm during inter-
course and another 10 percent achieve orgasm
in only one of four coital experiences.

Further heterosexual discrepancies include
contraception, pregnancy, abortion, and
child care. When and if contraception is
practiced, women are generally responsible.
Women, not men, become pregnant. Women can-
not get legal, medically safe abortions, ex-
cept at unreasonable emotional and financial
costs. Finally, if a child is born, women
bear the primary responsibility for its
care. In sum, in coitus, women do not
necessarily experience physical release or
pleasure; whereas, they do bear tremendous
responsibility.

Sexual attitudes and behavior reflect the
attitudes and behavior that govern any cul-
ture or society. Sexual behavior is symbo-
lic behavior. As Kate Millett puts it in
Sexual Politics:

Coitus can scarcely be said to take
place in a vacuum; although of itself
it appears a biological and physical
activity, it is set so deeply within
the larger context of human affairs
that it serves as a charged microcosm
of the variety of attitudes and
values to which a culture subscribes. 
American society subscribes to the patri-
archy. Its most pervasive ideology is sex-
ual dominion, specifically male supremacy.

"How to Have Intercourse... Without
Getting Screwed" was published by the
ASUW Women's Commission in Seattle, Wash-
ington, in January 1972. The second
printing was funded by the Graduate and
Professional Student Senate and by the
Associated Students of the University of
Washington. Authors are Lynn K. Hansen,
Barbara Reskin, and Diana Gray.

Anne E. Schwiesow

Two principles are paramount: (a) male
shall dominate female, and (b) elder male
shall dominate younger.
Sex is a status category with political
implications. Sex defines a relationship
of dominance and subordinance; it defines
power-structured relationships in which
one group, men, controls another, women. As
such, it is a model for all other exploitive
systems, for the larger schema of American
politics. The domination of women by men
is a prototype of the control men have tried
to exercise over other men, that groups,
e.g., racial, have tried to exercise over
other groups, that America as a nation has
tried to exercise over other nations.

According to Hannah Arendt, there are two
ways of maintaining or perpetuating any
power structure: by force or by condition-
ing. Through socialization or "internal
colonization,” most men and most women ac-
cept three basic patriarchal polities or
structures:

1. The first is status: Men are ascribed
superior status; women, inferior status.

2. The second is temperament: The develop-
ment of temperament is based on the needs
of the dominant group (men) and dictated by
what they cherish in themselves and find con-
venient in their subordinates (women). Ac-
cordingly, men are supposed to be rational,
aggressive, intelligent, forceful; women
are supposed to be emotional, passive, ig-
norant, docile, virtuous.

3. The final, and codifying, structure is
role: Women are relegated to menial, domes-
tic labor and to attending children. The
rest of human interest and achievement is
the legitimate concern and dominion of men.

In short, we subscribe to a male supremacist
value system in which the function of the
norm is unthinkingly dictated by, and dele-
gated to, the man; it is a value system
based upon the perpetuation of that which is
convenient for men.

It logically follows that that which is
not convenient for men is not acceptable.
Behavior that is not complementary to male
behavior—normal behavior—is abnormal.
Hence, authentic female behavior (not
defined by, or necessarily in accordance
with, or dependent upon male behavior) is
a priori abnormal. The result is alienation
on the part of most women: alienation from
themselves, in intimate relationships, from
society in general. Women are not rewarded
for being independent, self-determining,
whole human beings. Further, those who dare
to deviate from the norm, those who resist,
or by some accident, miss socialization, are
dealt with by force, the second means of
maintaining the power structure.

(continued on page 8)

Feminist Perspective and Cave 3

Within the man's system, coitus blatantly
exemplifies sexual politics on an individual
or personal level. Women's sexuality has
been defined by men to benefit men until
women have learned to believe in their own
sexual inferiority.

A long-standing myth of western patriar-
chal society contends that women have a
lesser sex drive than men. Krafft-Ebing, a
well-known sexologist of a generation ago,
said of women:

"...if she is normally developed
mentally and well-bred, her sexual
desire is small. If this were not
so, the whole world would become

a brothel and marriage and family
impossible. It is certain that the
man that avoids women and the woman
who seeks men are abnormal."

A 1869 marriage manual read:

"...There can be no doubt that sexual
feeling in the female, is, in a
majority of cases, in abeyance, and
that it requires positive and con-
siderable excitement to be roused

at all; and even if roused (which in
many instances it never can be), is
very moderate, compared with that

of the male.

The correlate to this thought is that, since
women have a lesser sexual desire, they do
not require as much sexual gratification.

Sexual politics was probably most severely
codified by Sigmund Freud. I don't believe
he was consciously malicious, but rather the
confused legatee of a Jewish Viennese patri-
archy. He lamented, on one hand, his
inability to understand women, while, on the
other, he continually diagnosed, defined,
and labeled them: less than men.

According to his psychoanalytic perspec-
tive, women were not whole human beings,
but mutilated males who longed all their
lives for a penis and must compensate for
its lack. Further, women did not possess a
libido, or sex drive. Libido belonged to
men. Hence, women were innately passive;
men, active.

Freud believed that during the phallic
phase of psychosexual development, both boys
and girls shift from a primary focus on the
mouth and anus as sources of erotic pleasure
to their genitalia, the penis for boys, the
clitoris for girls. He considered the
clitoris to be an atrophied penis, and he
defined girls as "little boys" who had
literally come too short. However, as the
little girl grows up, she must transfer any

pleasurable sensations from the clitoris to
the vagina, which she discovers later:

"The clitoris in the girl...is in every
way equivalent during childhood to the
penis....The transition to womanhood
very much depends upon the early and
complete relegation of this sensitivity
from the clitoris over to the vaginal
orifice."

The superiority of vaginal over clitoral
orgasm was a particularly useful theory.
Clitoral women were labeled immature,
neurotic, bitchy, masculine, infantile.
Vaginal women, on the other hand, were
maternal, feminine, mature, normal. Normal,
because it was, and is, convenient for men:
Vaginal insertion facilitates, both physio-
logically and psychologically, orgasm for
men. Also, to the degree that women believe
in vaginal orgasm, they are dependent upon
an erect penis, upon a man. Clitoral orgasm
affords sexual pleasure independent of the

male.

Vaginal orgasm is a myth. Anatomically,
all orgasms are centered in the clitoris.
This is not to imply that women do not, and
cannot, learn to experience orgasm through
vaginal insertion, but that the vagina it-
self is devoid of nerve endings. Dr. Judd
Marnor, representative of one of the newer
schools of psychoanalysis, frankly admits:

"...The chief sensory area for erogenous
sensation in women is localized in the
glans clitoris, just as in men it is
localized in the homologous glans
penis. (The shaft of the penis, like
the vagina, is lacking in genital cor-
puscles.)...Strictly speaking, there
is no such thing as vaginal orgasm in
the female, any more than we might
speak of scrotal, anal, or prostatic
orgasm in the male.

Even the adjectives vaginal and clitoral
create unnecessary confusion. We must eli-
minate them. Women, like men, experience
orgasm.

One final Freudian myth deserves explana-
tion: penis envy. The penis has served for
Freud and his followers as the "unalterable
determinant of maleness which women could
symbolically envy instead of the power and
prestige afforded men in society." And,
this plight was conferred on her, not by men
but by God, who created women without a
penis. Further, the lack of a penis legiti-
matized her role as wife and mother: She
transferred her desire for a penis to a de-
sire for a child, and she was especially
fortunate if it were a male child. Hence,
she was kept home and in a family way. (The
Roman etymology for family, familius, means
domestic servants.)

Anthropologists have shown that women's
sexual response is culturally conditioned.
Margaret Mead contends that whether or not a
woman experiences orgasm depends not only on
physical factors, but even more on where she
happens to have been born and reared:

"...Clearly those societies which
believe in orgasms for women and
produce orgiastic behavior in them
are also the ones which employ
effective stimulation techniques..."

The ability to achieve orgasm is a
potential; it is a learned response. Almost
any woman can experience orgasm if effective
stimulation is applied in a favorable social
and psychological milieu.

Interestingly, the phenomenon of orgasm as
a learned response is applicable to men as
well as women. According to Doctors
Eberhard and Phyllis Kronhausen, ejaculation
does not a priori spell orgasm in men. Eja-
culation may produce a physiological tension
release, but it is not as great as when
ejaculation and orgasm coincide. Because
ejaculation and orgasm have several aspects
in common and outwardly resemble one another,
they have been confused as the same thing.
This also suggests that some men may be
nonorgasmic. In men we call it impotence,
implying an unwillingness to act, rather
than frigidity, as in women, implying an in-
active passivity that simply froze over.

Historically, however, women have learned
from, and deferred to, whatever model of
sexuality was prescribed by men. Within the

*Recommended reading: "The Myth of the
Vaginal Orgasm,” by Ann Koedt. Published by
New England Free Press, 791 Tremont Street,
Boston, Mass. 02118.

patriarchy, male dominance must be  
maintained, at any cost. The traditional  
"Missionary position," still the only legally  
acceptable position in some states, provides  
a striking example. The man lies on top of  
the woman, placing himself literally in the  
superior position and in control of the sex  
act, making it difficult for her to discover  
her own sexuality and, hence, perpetuating  
the notion of female frigidity.  

Female pleasure or satisfaction is not  
intrinsic in the coital act. Too often it  
is founded in pleasing the man. Isn't that  
why he chose her? His romantic love, if it  
does not disguise the injustice of her social  
position, at least makes it palliative.  

Joan Baez referred to these same politics in  
the Resistance when she said: "Girls say  
'yes' to the boys who say 'no'." Women are  
dependent upon men to win them social status  
and to determine the way they are viewed by  
the world. Survival for a woman, within the  
power structure, is to please, and hence to  
be chosen by a man. He is the conqueror;  
she, the conquered.  

The woman who does not play sex according  
to the rules, who is not conquerable, is  
dealt forceful or violent treatment. Consider  
the verbal abuse women receive. Women  
who are not ladies (the societal ideal:  
virgins or lawful wives) are bitches, whores,  
sluts, pigs, loose, easy; women who are not  
willing on the spot are uptight, frigid,  
cold, square. Consider the act of rape.  
Rape is a form of violence involving the per-  
sonal humiliation of the victim. Whether  
the male supremacist commits the act in fact  
or fantasy, he participates in and perpet-  
uates the prowess myth of rape. The man who  
verbalizes, "She makes me so mad I want to  
fuck her to death," is as guilty as the man  
who penetrates against a woman's will. In  
this category, I include husbands and lovers.  

Kinsey, Ruth Herschberger, and, more  
recently, Masters and Johnson, have challeng-  
ed the aforementioned sexual myths and misin-  
formation with reason and substantive clini-  
cal data. Nonetheless, the liberating po-  
tential of authentic sexual behavior cannot  
be realized as long as politics, i.e., domi-  
nance-subordinance behavior, characterize  
male-female relationships, as long as a  
male-dominated society insists on keeping  
women down. As Germaine Greer points out,  
for example:  

It is not...beyond the scope of...  
theorists to argue that all the women  
tested by Masters and Johnson were  
infantile products of improper condi-  
tioning, and that the fact that all  
orgasms in their samples were clitoral  
does not disprove that vaginal orgasms  
ever existed, could exist, or ought  

to exist....Facts are irrelevant to  
what is basically a value system.  

I believe the challenge to the sexual  
status quo must come from women. To ensure  
physical and psychic survival, we must  
demand new definitions of masculine and  
feminine that do not require dominance of  
one sex over the other, or better yet, do  
away with such antiquated notions completely.  
We, as women, must first get at the roots of  
our own oppression. As we develop self-  
determining, healthy self-concepts and sexual  
expectations, men will change in response.  

References  

1. Millett, Kate, Sexual Politics (Double-  
day, New York, 1970), p. 23. —  

2. Arendt, Hannah, "Speculations on Vio-  
lence," The New York Review of Books,  
February 27, 1969, cited by Kate Millett,  
Sexual Politics.  

Ebing, J. Krafft, Psychopathia Sexualis  
(London, 1893), p. 13, cited by Germaine  
Greer, The Female Eunuch (McGraw Hill,  
New York, 1971).  

Hayes, Albert H., M.D., Physiology of  
Women (Boston: Peabody Medical Insti-  
tute, 1869), p. 226, cited by Michael  
Gordon, "From Procreation to Recreation:  
Changes in Sexual Ideology, 1830-1940,"  
presented at 1970 meeting of the  
American Sociological Association,  
Washington, D.C.  

Freud, Sigmund, cited by Drs. Eberhard  
and Phyllis Kronhausen, The Sexually  
Responsive Woman (Ballantine Books, New  
York, 1964), pp. 22-23.  

Marnor, Judd, cited by Eberhard and  
Kronhausen, pp. 31-32.  

Lydon, Susan, "The Politics of Orgasm,"  
Sisterhood Is Powerful, (ed.) Robin  
Morgan (Random House, New York, 1970),  
p. 20.  

Eberhard and Kronhausen, p. 62.  

Tbid.:, p. 28.  

Herschberger, Ruth, Adam's Rib (Harper  
and Row, New York, 1948), p. 46.  

Greer, Germaine, The Female Eunuch, pp.  
88-89.  

This concludes the series of articles re-  
printed from the booklet, "How To Have Inter-  
course...Without Getting Screwed.”  

POLITICS

10

jk kk

As I begin the process of  
establishing residence in  
Minneapolis, I am struck by  
the potential power of my eco  
nomic decisions. I must find  
a dentist, a bank, a reliable  
auto mechanic, a veterinarian,  
etc. And women with estab-  
lished families have far more  
diverse needs than I have,  
and thus far more power. I  
believe we are now largely  
wasting this power.

Supporting Women

Personally, I would put up  
with some inconvenience to  
patronize a woman dentist,  
mechanic. I would boycott  
any local business which I  
knew practiced sexism, and I  
would walk to St. Paul, if  
necessary, to avoid placing  

my money with a financial  
institution which denied wom-  
en credit. Not only that,  

but I believe that my mother  
would also! That is, I sus-  
pect that a great many wom-  

en who do not feel committed  
to the Women's Movement, as  
such, would cooperate in a  
venture like this if the nec-  
essary information were read-  
ily available to them at the  
right time. The meat boycott  
showed the economic power that  
women can wield when they are  
angry enough and organized  
enough. The problem is mainly  
one of information. Which  
local taxicab services refuse  
to hire women drivers? Is  
there a local women's carpen-  
try group? Which financial  
agencies and which insurance  
companies are the worst?

What local businesses are  
owned by women?

A clearinghouse of such  
information, if widely pub-  
licized, could help fill this  
need. A Women's Grapevine co.  
could help Twin Cities women  
organize their potential eco-  
nomic power to help other wom-  
en who are struggling to est-  
ablish an economic base, and  
to boycott businesses that are  
hindering such efforts. It  
would act as a better business  
bureau for women. It could  
also function as a clearing-  
house for information about  
local services such as career  
counseling, day care, etc.  
and thus help women take ad-  
vantage of already existing  
services. Conveniently, much  
of this information has al-  
ready been researched by the  
staff of Changes.

22

Economic Grapevine:  
Women - Power

How can we gather the nec-  
essary information and how  
can we keep it current? I  
propose that someone or some  
dedicated group volunteer their  
telephone. Sympathetic  

sisters who are less comm-  
itted could chip in to pay  
the phone bill. Then, women  
with information or complaints  
or services to render should  
be solicited to call this  
number and share their inform-  
ation. The telephone number  
would have to be well publi-  
cized initially. There are  
several papers in the Twin  
Cities which might be very  
eager to provide the Women's  
Grapevine with some free pub-  
licity--Changes, for instance  
or perhaps "The Minnesota  
Daily". I suspect a little  
bit of brainstorming on our  
part could find a newsworthy  
"angle" for the 'Tribune.'  
Certainly, every women's or-  
ganization in the Twin Cities  
should be called and informed  
of our telephone number. Some  
interesting bumper stickers  

could be printed up to adver-  
tise the Women's Grapevine.

Clearinghouse

All the information re-  
ceived would have to be ver-  
ified and filed. Once a fair  
amount of information was col-  
lected, other women could call  
the number and receive the  
information on file and be  
urged to verify it. After  
operation had begun, the na-  
ture of the questions re-  
ceived would help the Wom-  
en's Grapevine to define  
areas in which more inform-  
ation and services were need-  
ed. It might, for instance,  
spur the formation of a car-  
pentry collective, or help a  
struggling band survive. Or  
alter sexist hiring practices  
in a specific business.

A Women's Grapevine would  
be a helpful clearinghouse  
for information, but its use  
would probably still be lim-  
ited to the counter culture.  
A regular column in "Gold  
Flower" could be started to  
publicize what we knew and to  
encourage more women to vol-  
unteer information. The next  
step would be to publish a  
directory similar to the Black  
Yellow Pages which is publi-  
shed in Chicago as a direct-  
ory of Black businesses.

Mobilizing

The publishing of the Dir-  
ectory could be financed in  
part by approaching those in-  
dividuals and businesses which  
would be recommended by the  
directory. Hopefully, these  
people would be already app-  
reciative of the business  
sent to them by the Women's  
Grapevine and would be eager  
to advertise in such a dir-  
ectory. Thus it should be  
possible to distribute the  
directory for a nominal  
charge.

Our directory could be  
made available in bookstores  
and other women's groups could  
help with distribution. For  
instance, the U. of M. Women's  
Liberation could make sure the  
directory was available to all  
incoming students. And surely  
other imaginative means of  
effectively distributing the  
directory could be found.

Although most women who are  
reading this paper are comm-  
itted in principle to chang-  
ing the patriarchal structure  
of our society, our ability  
to attack it at its economic  
base is being limited by our  
lack of organization and in-  
formation. A Women's Grape-  
vine and a Women's Directory  
for the Twin Cities are rel-  
atively modest undertakings  
which could help us mobilize  
more of our resources to  
help our sisters, to pressure  
our oppressors, and to alter  
sexual power relationships.

The success of this project  
depends entirely on the real  
dedication of a large number  
of women. We need a phone.

We need all the committed vol-  
unteers we can find. We need  
money. We need the active  
support of every woman who  

has experienced discrimination.

Position Open

Position open at Operation de  
Novo: send resume to 309  
Portland Ave. So. Mpls. and  
call 336-1731 for appointment.

JOB PLACEMENT SPECIALIST-  
Aggressive mature individ-  
ual for agency with heavy  
manpower focus. Must work  
well under pressure. Some  
experience desirable. Salary  

range $8,000 to $10,000.

Equal opportunity agency.

5  
Credit (continued from page 4)  

on sex or marital status.  

One is the public accommodations section which is 363.03 subdivision 3: "It is an unfair discriminatory practice:  

To deny any person full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations of a place of public accommodation because of race, color, creed, religion, national origin or sex."  

In the view of the department of human rights, public accommodations includes any credit or loan granting.  

But there is a more specific provision which is in subdivision 7 of that same section and that plainly says: Credit Sex Discrimination: “It is an unfair discriminatory practice to discriminate in the extension of credit to a person because of sex."  

So hopefully these two provisions will alleviate a lot of this real hardship. You know, the attitude of some credit grantors...I've even known of bank officials to say, "I don't want my wife going around town running up charge accounts." This was actually said by a bank official to a woman seeking to  

set up an independent checking account. Now this was an appalling statement for him to make.  

You must understand that these new provisions don't mean that every woman is going to be granted a charge account, credit card or a loan. She will be subject to the same criteria that a man is, but this is fine. Many times, in fact it's almost  

been universal, the criteria for extending credit has been different for men than for women. This is what the law intends to remedy. If a person is credit worthy under a certain set of circumstances, that is, has a certain job, a certain amount of assets, a bank account, home ownership, a car, then that person, whether the person be male or female, should be judged as a credit risk on an equal basis with all others in the same group.  

WHAT SHOULD A WOMAN DO IF SHE FEELS SHE'S BEEN UNFAIRLY DENIED CREDIT?  

Of course, being affiliated with the Department of Human Rights, I believe that the first thing she should do  

would be to contact our department with an accurate description of what has happened and file a charge of discrimination. Now you know discrimination on the basis of sex in credit has been banned prior to August 1 in the cities of Minneapolis and St. Paul. Now, however, the state has the same provision. Our enforcement procedures  

in my opinion work a little more efficiently. I'm sure that if any of the representatives of the other departments read this they will challenge that. But it is  

my opinion that we do have a more protective investigation and complaint handling procedure so that we could get faster, equitable relief.  

Why I Didn’t Review Mailer  

When I was in high school, I often engaged in a characteristic fantasy of the oppressed. I imagined myself a famous writer, embarking on a long-awaited autobiography. One day I would stroll into the office of the assistant principal, who was the discipline officer, and ask for permission to tour the school. My reason, I would drawlingly explain, was that I was writing this autobiography, but unfortunately could not remember a thing about my years at his school. I hoped that a short walk about would spur my reluctant memory.  

I had the same kind of fantasy when I began reading  

The “Liberal”  

or  

“OK, So you’re getting screwed--you don’t have  

It happens every time. I meet a man who bears all the "right" signs--longish hair, faded jeans, McGovern sticker on his VW. His conversation puts me at ease (making yogurt at home, corporate waste, Nixon's latest incredible move) and before I know it, I find myself relaxed, opening up, trusting him.  

"My wife used to be in Women's Advocates."  

"Oh, really?" I ask excitedly.  

"Yes. A lot of those women were quite upset when she picked up with me." Soon I find out why. "Some of them would rather hate you than look at you," is the beginning of a long and increasingly insensitive succession of complaints about reverse discrimination. I am unprepared, my defenses down (I had trusted him), helpless. I manage, "People can get bitter when they've been kicked around enough." Both he and my liberal female (male-identified) friend miss the understatement. She speaks, not of the immeasurable destruction that women have suffered at the hands of men, but of the alienating effect of women's bitterness.  

Why is it that no self-respecting liberal would speak of how "alienating" black hatred of whites is, yet would seek to rob women of one means of regaining self-respect, righteous anger? My female friend fears anger, because she sees only its destructive potential, and because it's not “nice.” Men fear anger in women, because they fear that once women regain a healthy  

sense of themselves, they may no longer need men—and they are right.  

I, too, agree that an excess of bitterness can be destructive (though my concern is for the woman who feels the bitterness). But the way for men to deal with that bitterness is not to criticize (a very male reaction, and the way the bitterness started in the first place) but to understand and empathize. The feminist revolution is more than equal rights for women. It is a triumph of creative "female" values over destructive "male" values. And when our revolution is accomplished, I, a woman who trusts over and over and over again, will no longer have to listen to men lecture on female bitterness.  

— Susan Cushman

12

"Twenty women started this organization,  
Minnesota Feminists. Some were involved  
in the University Women's Liberation, and  
many of the women were disappointed with  
University Women's Liberation. There were  
the negative feelings of the group being a  
YSA (Young Socialist Alliance) front, a  
clique that was meeting the needs of only  
four or five women, the awareness groups  
were absent, the power was not organized  
and the group operated in a vacuum,” began  
Jackie Byrd, spokeswoman for Minnesota  
Feminists.  
“The organization was formed because a num-  
ber of members in University Women's Lib-  
eration felt that the organization had be-  
come unhealthy and needed changes. The  
organization had become unhealthy in our  
minds because we felt that the number of  
women's needs being met were almost nil.  
And it was really important to the women  
that were discussing the problems of the  
organization that more women's needs be met.  
"Some of the problems that we felt were  
happening were political ideologies were  
infringing on various women's rights. Fem-  
inism we felt should become the ideology.  
That women should come first and be the prim-  
ary focus. And the issues worked upon  
should be woman-oriented and we found in  
University Women's Liberation this wasn't  
happening and the changes were really nec-  
essary in order to make feminism the prime  
factor in a feminist organization.

A Positive Name

"First off we changed the name from Uni-  
versity Women's Liberation to Minnesota  
Feminists. Because we felt that University  
Women's Liberation was a name that had come  
from that past. And we are now moving for-  
ward in a positive direction. Which means  
that feminism is a positive name, a pro-  
active name, a name that is right now and  
that is very productive. Whereas women's  
liberation is a negative name. Liberation  
from something as opposed to feminism which  
is moving towards something. With a new  
name we could change the image and we could  
change a great many of the problems that had  
developed in University Women's Liberation.  
So out of the new name grew—one: a philos-  
ophy; two: a structure; and three: a pol-  
icy," continued Jackie.

"Feminism the pro-active versus the react-  
ive. We see ourselves as a pro-active, pro-  
women and positive directed organization.  
This is what we need to keep. And to do this  
we have to meet the needs of more than four  
or five women.

Feminist Philosophy  
"When we were discussing the change in  
the organization's direction we discussed  
philosophy a great deal. What we discovered  
was feminism is what each one of us lived  
day by day. It is integrated into our day-  
to-day behavior. Since it is integrated in-  
to our daily behavior, it also has to be  
integrated into the organization. It is done  
by implementing the things learned, the  
things we experience day by day, into the  
organization, which is very difficult. When  
we espouse feminism, it means we are willing  
to care about other women, to help other wo-  
men, not to stab other women in the back,

Pro-active Women—  
Minnesota Feminists Born

Diana Lynn Antolik

which is very hard not to do. But those  
ideas have to live in Minnesota Feminists.  
"If we say we want to meet all women's  
needs, if we say ‘I won't be around and I  
want to be active with women, I want to help  
women, and I want to share with women', it  
doesn't do to have an organization which ex-  
cludes women. Or excludes women that are  
different from us or doesn't think exactly  
the way I think or someone else thinks. Fem-  
inists are all going to be different types  
of women, from all different backgrounds and  
with different ideas. But the one thing we  
have in common is that we are all women, and  
we are all feminists. We can't close off  
other women.  
"It is also developing a way of looking at  
things from a totally feminist viewpoint."

“The philosophy of the Minnesota Feminists  
is basically to admit the differences among  
women—race, class, sexual preference, pol-  
itical ideology (in the male sense) and to  
look beneath those differences to see that  
they are women and feminists and meet on  
that level.”

Unique Structure

"To have input that is total we have set  
up a unique organization," Jackie started  
explaining the structure of Minnesota Femin-  
ists. "It involves the large group which  
is divided into awareness groups, specific  
task-oriented groups, ongoing groups and a  
steering committee.

"We had all read a number of articles and  
specifically 'The Tyranny of Structureless-  
ness' by Jo Freeman in MS (July 1973) and  
decided that one of the basic problems with  
University Women's Liberation was this tyr-  
anny of structurelessness. A few women gain-  
ed power in an organization because there  
wasn't any delineated power. This was frus-  
trating because no new women could get into  
the organization because of the clique. The  
older women with the group were not willing  
to teach other women. This produced a lot  
of hostility and dissonance within the group.  
That is why it was decided to give the org-  
anization a structure. To be as free as  
possible but also have worked out areas and  
lines of communication and teaching.

"The most important group is the awareness  
group (once called consciousness raising  
groups). They are a way of reaching new wom-  
en. It is very important to involve the  
personnel. It is also important for the sup-  
port of a woman involved in feminism for a  
long time or just starting out to continue  
the individual contact with other women.

“The task forces—women's studies,  
abortion, day care and others are task-orien-  
ted. (They can also serve as awareness group  
groups.) These task forces change, grow or  
end depending on what needs are to be met.  
These groups take action on various areas con-  
cerning women.

“Ongoing groups are the ones that are need-  
ed on a permanent basis. For example;  
running and staffing the office; a clearing  
house so there is contact with other women's  
organizations and will be information and  
knowledge flowing between them. The “Minn-  
esota Daily" page for contact inter-univer-  
sity, a finance committee, a public relations  
group and more or less as needs arise that

Minnesota  
Feminists  

are continuing needs.  

"Each of these areas, groups, sends a  
representative chosen however they decide to  
represent them on the steering committee.  
Each of these women has a say and a vote in  
determining all policies. The steering comm-  
ittee also serves as a clearing house of  
inter-organization information. There will  
be knowledge passed so the abortion task  
force knows what other groups are doing and  

the reverse. This knowledge can then be  
taken back to the smaller groups and dis-  
persed.  

Stat”  

“Then taken from the MS article is a pos-  
ition of "Star". This position is for contact  
with the media since the media usually  
picks one vocal woman and makes her the spo-  
keswoman for the whole organization, whether  
or not she knows about the subject matter.  

So we created the position of Star. These  
three women have a responsibility to act as  
spokeswomen for the group. They meet with  
the press and other groups. These three wom-  
en have the group to be responsible to. The  
women are chosen by lottery and their names  
are submitted by the women themselves. There  
is an ego-gratification with this job but a  
lot of responsibility since they have to  
attend all steering committee meetings and  

be knowledgeable about all aspects of Minn-  
esota Feminists.”  

"The core of the organization is the large  
group. It will form from all of the aware-  
ness groups, task forces, ongoing groups and  
all action. The large group will meet once  
every two weeks. The meetings will also  
be a clearing house for information and the  
meetings will be more than business since  
programs are to be planned by either the task  
forces, ongoing groups or whoever would like.  

“We want to be both a university group  
for students and also an area to other  
women in the community. To be able to make  
women knowledgeable about other groups in  
the city.  

“With the Minnesota Feminists, we will  
have a chance to take time with women, to  
share with women, to invest time and energy  
for and with women," Jackie concluded.  

PEOPLE’S  
COMPANY  

1534 EAST LAKE  

NATURAL FOODS  
BREAD  

GRANOLA  

Battles Won  

"In a victory for what the Arlington (VA)  
Education Association terms ‘women's and men  
men's liberation.' AEA has negotiated one of  
the first contract provisions in the country  
to grant parental leave to male teachers."  

--MN Education News  

"Carrie Goetze, 12....will drive in the All  
American Soap Box Derby at Akron, Ohio. She  
is the first girl to win the Minnesota state  
championship, sponsored by the Greater Mpls.  
Chamber of Commerce and the Mpls. Jaycees.  
There will be six other girls among the 250  
champions competing." --Mpls. Star  

"Norm MacDonald walked to the center court  
at Minikahda Club Saturday afternoon and pre-  
sented a basket of flowers and a kiss to his  
opponent of the day, Jeanne Arth.  

"But his psychological ploy didn't prevent  
Miss (sic) Arth from winning what was billed  
as the 'Northwest Tennis Battle of the Cen-  
tury,’ otherwise called Man vs. Woman. A  
Wimbledon doubles champion with Darlene Hard  
in 1959, ...Arth calmly and smoothly wore  
down MacDonald 8-5 in their pro set."  

--Mpls. Tribune  

"Another first is for Mary Bacon, one of the  
small but increasing number of female jockeys.  
She was fined $50 by stewards at New York's  
Aqueduct racetrack "for using foul and abus-  
ive language to admissions personnel." It  
seems Ms. Bacon tried to enter the paddock  
without showing her credentials, and the guard  
not recognizing her in mufti, wouldn't let her  
in.” --Family Circle  

Battles Lost  

"End the heartbreak and embarrassment of  
terrible coffee forever...And get back to the  
business of living happily ever after.  

Farberware" --Mpls. Tribune  
"Hi--I'm Barbara. I work for the Sales  
Dept. at Hull. Have you heard about our new  
Dynameltor injection molding machine? I've  
seen my boss, Ken Haywood, demonstrate it to  
customers, and they are really impressed!....  
Here comes Ken with another quote to type!  

I'll write you later if I may."  

"The Revolutionary Screw...Bring us your  
mold and find out firsthand what the revol-  
utionary screw can do for you!"  

(direct mail ad)  
o OF  

MAY 21) JAN  
EVANS  

& Hi Voltage Group  
A HIT SHOW FROM  
FOUNTAINBLEU, Miami  
THE LIVING ROOM, N.Y  
MR. KELLY’S, Chicago  

McGuires  
14 Mi. So. 694 at Lexington  
SHOWTIMES: Mon.-Fri. 8-10  

‘etalon’  

p.m.  
Sat. 7:30-10:00-11:30  
488-6781

No More “Buck’s”  
and “Squaws”  

KATHY SMITH, A CHICKASAW  
INDIAN, PARTICIPATED IN THE  
OCCUPATION OF WOUNDED KNEE,  
A TOWN ON THE PINE RIDGE RES-  
ERVATION IN SOUTH DAKOTA,  
FROM ITS START TO FINISH.  
LAST MONTH, GOLD FLOWER CAR-  
RIED HER MEMOIR OF THE ROLE  
INDIAN AND NON-INDIAN WOMEN  
PLAYED IN THAT ACTION. THIS  
MONTH, WE PUBLISH THE SECOND  
PART OF SMITH'S ARTICLE: AN  
ANALYSIS OF THE TRADITIONAL  
AND CURRENT ROLES OF INDIAN  
WOMEN.  

Enslavement  

I write this out of love--  
for my Indian brothers and  
sisters, to help you under-  
stand our history and not be  
ashamed that our women, as  
well as our men, are strong  
people.  

Our Indian men are enslaved  
by powerful white men, whose  
power filters down through  
the bureaucracy and reaches  
them in the form of the BIA,  
schools, churches, employ-  

ment agencies and other insti-  

tutions. They in turn try to  
enslave us, the nearest tar-  
get for their rage.  

Our men believe they are  
"demasculinized" by the white  
men, who took away all means  
of earning a living (hunt-  
ing, fishing and so forth)  
and tried to make them over  
in their image, i.e.:  

THE MAN must go out into  
the world to earn a living;  
he divorces himself from his  
emotions, home and children;  
he must work 8-5 every day  
instead of working several  
days then resting and cele-  
brating for several days.  

THE WOMAN bears her children  
in a hospital with arms and  
legs tied down, with no  

QUARTER  
A new lesbian-feminist arts  
journal with stories, prints,  

plays, essays, reviews, black  
and white drawings and poetry  

Send manuscripts and graphics to:  
554 Valley Vista  
Oakland, Ca. 94610  

Kathy Smith  

friends or relatives to help  
her; she raises and teaches  
her children; she sews, cooks  
and cleans.  

THE YOUNG PEOPLE must stay  
clean, quiet, obedient; they  
must learn in school from 9-  
3, instead of from life all  
the time.  

THE OLD PEOPLE must live  
separately, waiting to die,  
instead of teaching young  
ones and practicing medicine.  

Indian children in white  
schools have been punished  
for speaking their own lan-  
guage or practicing their  
own religion or culture. Kept  
from learning their true his-  
tory, they were told only  
that they were savage, drunk,  
lazy, heathen at best.  

Turnabout  

were taught that the  
Indian community--Hol-  
lywood version--meant a  
strong "buck," lord and mas-  
ter over his "squaw," a  
brainless drudge who does all  
the work, waits on him,  
praises him and lives for him.  

This western interpretation  
is decidedly not true!  

For example, take the case  
of Sacajawea--the only per-  
son with the knowledge and  
courage to guide the explor-  
ers Lewis and Clark. There is  
a reason for her self-reli-  
ance and independence--a long-  
time tradition.  

Indian women were accustom-  
ed to responsibility. They  
built the tribe's homes, each  
especially designed for its lo-  
cale, climate and uses--  
pueblos which rival today's  
skyscrapers, teepees which  
are insulated for summer and  
winter, hogans, long houses.  

They also made the policy  

They  
ideal  

The next meeting of GOLD  
FLOWER will be Monday, Sep-  
tember 10, 1973 at 710 W. 22  
St., Mpls., MN. Phone:  
374-2345.  

Get your July-August '73  
issue of SO'S YOUR OLD LADY  
at the Lesbian Resource Cent-  
er, the Amazon Bookstore, and  
other selected locations  
throughout the Twin Cities.  

of the tribe,  

in the Grand  
Council of Women; they de-  
cided when they should plant,  
according to the moon and  
natural signs. They deter-  
mined when to hunt or move  

to a new location.  

The Medicine Women doctored  
with herbs, teas and other  
medicines--many of which,  
such as quinine and witch  
hazel, were copied and claim-  
ed as original by modern med-  
icine. Family planning was  
practiced, mostly by absten-  
tion from sex, but in some  
cases a strong tea was drunk  
to abort an unwanted fetus.  
The technique of the IUD was  
practiced by placing small  
stones in the womb, which  
prevented the fetus from at-  
taching and growing.  

In the old times, women  
were physically, mentally  
and spiritually attuned.  

They knew that the impor-  
tant matters of the tribe  
rested on their shoulders,  
and that their bodies were  
capable of the most difficult  
work. They were dignified and  
dressed plainly; each woman  
was her own person, knowing  
herself, her capabilities,  
her humor and her judgment.  

The men, on the other hand,  
loved children; they were  
sensitive to nature, art and  
others' feelings.  

Survival  

Indian women were on an  
equal plane; the women still  
have a reputation for being  
able to take care of them-  
selves. Just trying to sur-  
vive as a woman is difficult  
--but it has been, and is,  
especially difficult for  
the Indian woman.  

AUGUST 26  
WOMEN'S SUFFRAGE DAY  

175th ANNIVERSARY

15

AN EDUCATION

DIRECTORY

Toni McNaron, an associate
professor of English at the
University of Minnesota, has
been named to head the UM's
new Women's Studies Program,
an interdisciplinary program
within the College of Liberal
Arts.

McNaron, who has taught at
the U since 1964, holds a
bachelor's degree in English
and math from the University
of Alabama, a master's in Eng-
lish and intellectual history
from Vanderbilt University
and a doctorate in English
and English history from the
University of Wisconsin.

McNaron will continue to
hold her position with the
English department, as the
coordinator's position is
currently funded at only
half-time.

The Women's Studies Pro-
gram will offer this fall
WS 1-001, "Comparative Study
of Women,” an introductory
survey course to be taught by
sociology professor Caroline
Rose, political science pro-
fessor Joanne Arnaud and an-
thropology instructor Janet
Spector. The course will be
offered fall through spring
quarters.

U of Minnesota

A number of new and old
women's studies courses are
being offered during the
academic year at the Univer-
sity of Minnesota. For fur-
ther information, contact
the Women's Studies Program
Office, 114 Johnston Hall,
or the Minnesota Women's
Center, 301 Walter Library.

FALL QUARTER

College of Home Economics -
Family Social Science: 3-015
"Life Styles: Educated Ameri-
can Women."

College of Liberal Arts -
Afro-American Studies: 3-061
"Black Family"

Honors History: Fr. Coll.
"Women in America: Heroes
and Models (Welfare Hist)"

WINTER QUARTER

College of Liberal Arts -
Afro-American Studies: 3-062
"Black Family"

English: 3-940 "Figures in
Literature: Emily Dickinson"
5-950 "Figures in Literature:
Virginia Woolf"

Women's Studies: 1-002 "Com-
parative Studies: Women in
Politics"

3-XXX Biology of Women

SPRING QUARTER
General College: 1-366 "Ima-
ges: Women"

College of Home Economics
Family Social Science: 3-015
"Life Styles: Educated Ameri-
can Women"

College of Liberal Arts -
English: 8-540 "Authors -
Emily Dickinson"

8-610 "Studies - Roethke,
Plath”

Social Science: 5-954 “Women,
Men United States today"
Women's Studies: 1-003 "Com-
parative Studies: Women in
Primitive Societies"

3-XXX "Biology of Women"

U Extension

Several new women's studies
courses--and some reorganized
standard courses--are offered
this fall by the U of M's
extension division for women.

The "Woman in America" sem-
inar this year will include
sessions on Gertrude Stein,
women in the arts, and his-
tory of American dance with
discussions directed by such
persons as sculptor Katherine
Nash, dancer Nancy Hauser and
women's studies coordinator
Toni McNaron. The course
meets Thursday mornings at
9:30 and Thursday evenings at
6:30, both in 302 Westbrook.

"A Woman's World," an intro-
ductory survey of lit-
erature by and about women,
will be offered on Wednesday
at 9:30 am in 302 Westbrook.
Jalie Carson is faculty co-
ordinator; session topics
include George Eliot, Jane
Austen, contemporary women
poets and women in Norman
Mailer’s fiction.

"Woman: A Sense of Identi-
ty," a practicum in tech-
niques of self-affirmation,
will be offered at 6 pm
Tuesdays in 392 Westbrook.

"Guidelines for Women," a
self-direction course involv-
ing aptitude and interest
testing, will meet in five
sessions starting Oct. 9 at
McPhail Center.

Further information on
these programs can be obtained
through the Women's Pro-
grams office, 290 Westbrook
Hall.

= PEOPLE’S FOOD

Metro State JC

Two courses in women's
studies will be repeated at
Metropolitan State Junior
College this fall, due to
increasing student demand.

Originally offered last
spring, both courses are
open to full and part-time
students; participants earn
four undergraduate credits
for each. Courses, which
cost $35, meet for a three-
hour lecture and one-hour
discussion each week. Class-
es run Sept. 24-Dec. 18.

"Women in the 1970's" will
meet on Tuesdays at 6:30 pm
to discuss socialization,
stereotyping and alterna-
tives to traditional roles.
Texts will include "Up
Against the Wall, Mother" by
Mary Louise Bisco and Elsie
Adams, and "Born Female" by
Caroline Bird.

"Advanced Critical Reading:
A View of Women as Reflected
in Current Fiction and Non-
Fiction" will meet at 1 pm
on Mondays, Wednesdays and
Fridays, with an additional
hour of discussion by ar-
rangement. Texts include
Lessing's "Golden Notebook,"
Chesler's "Women and Mad-
ness," Woolf's "A Room of
One's Own" and Eleanor Roose-
velt's "Autobiography."
Subjects for discussion in-
clude anthropological, psych-
ological and literary views
of women.

For more information on
these courses, call Mary
Scangarello, 335-8944, ext.

SYSTEM

S.A.P. Foods, 1435 N. Cleve-
land, St. Paul, 646-9173

Selby Coop, 988 Selby St.
Paul, 645-8866

The Beanery, 3008 Lyndale
Ave. So., 824-5161

Mill City, 2550 Bloomington,
721-2072

Powderhorn, 3440 Blooming-
ton, 724-9681

North Country, 2215 River-
side, 338-3110

Seward Coop, 2201 Franklin,
331-8870

Whole Foods, 2502 1st Ave.
So., 824-3474

Good Grits, 15th & Spruce,
339-5924

People's Bakery,
Lake, 721-7205

People's Warehouse, 205,
11th Ave. So., 341-3838

807SS NW SIDW

NOILVLS LSSYLS 3NVT  
ipeB XOE Od  
Y3aMOl1d G109  

“July ‘syodeauuty  
qivd  
aSoisog “S ‘fh  
Jive wing  

QO2Z ‘ON MUNIed  

Sie cee  
RIGHT - ON  
BILL JENN  

TO GOLDFLOWER  

name  
address  
city /state  
Zzzip  

e- GOLD FLOWER  

' P.O. BOX 8341  
LAKE STREET STATION  
MPLS MN 55408

"Gold Flower." Gold Flower, Aug. 1973. Archives of Sexuality and  
Gender, link.gale.com/apps/doc/RWNNZY682672459/  
AHSI?u=clemsonu_main&sid=bookmark-AHSI.  

Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.