AUGUST 1974 | ae

Suffer the Children

BY MARY HASTINGS

"Bending the twig" can be a distressing
prospect if parents want their daughters and
sons to grow up free of stifling sex
role stereotypes. But some Twin Cities in-
stitutions do offer activities for children
that can strengthen them and free them from
sex role bigotry. Following are results of
an admittedly selective survey of Twin Cit-
ies agencies; the activities listed tend to
appeal to very young children and most are
recreational. Charges, if any, are indica-
ted (Welfare subsidy is also indicated).

DANCE CHOREOGRAM: 725-4th St. S.E.,
Mpls. (Dinkytown area), 331-8563. Starting
September 19 Choreogram will offer dance
classes for boys and girls ages 6 - 12.
2:30 p.m. Tuesdays, 9:30 a.m. Saturdays.
$25 for series of 12 lessons, reduced rates
for families enrolling more than one child.
(Call to discuss possible special arrange-
ments in cases of financial need.)

CHILD CARE RESOURCE CENTER: 406 E. 48th
St., Mpls., 823-5261. The center is basic-
ally a resource center and library for
parents and day care workers, concentrating
on pre-school children. Its services are
available to anyone in the metropolitan
area. The center offers literature, files
on day care regulations, help with funding,
help with curricula. The center has a model
play area for people to investigate and
conducts workshops for parents and day-care
workers in such areas as infant stimulation
and nutrition.

August workshops will treat learning and
behavior problems of children. Register
as soon as possible; a $2 fee is charged.

Every Thursday in August the center will
hold “kids' activity days" from 1 to 3 p.m.
Parents can bring their children if they
call at least 24 hours in advance. The
days will include: plant day, mobile making
day, paint day, clay day and water play
day. There is no charge for these activi-
ties.

YWCA: 1130 Nicollet Ave., Mpls., 332-0501.
Following is the Y's statement on non-
sexist education and a listing of activi-
ties for pre-schoolers:

"The philosophy of non-sexist, non-racist
education for pre-schoolers is now in op-
eration in many YWCA programs.

"All YWCA instructors I spoke with indica-
ted that non-sexist education was attitud-
inal. Most children between the ages of
3 and 6 have yet to determine sex roles and
will therefore try and do anything their
friends do. Likewise, if instructors en-
courage both boys and girls to do every-
thing children do not develop a "must not”
attitude about their various activities, at
least, not in the school situation.

“Some examples of non-sexist educational
tools include play activities, books and
discussion. The YWCA Nursery School has
an open environment which includes trucks,
dolls, a play house with dress-up clothes,
and a miniature kitchen where kids learn to
cook. The teachers encourage the kids to be
come involved in all aspects of the facility.
It is not unusual to see little girls play-
ing with trucks in the sand or boys play-
ing with dolls.

"Books are very important educational
tools to young children. All YWCA pre-
school educators select special non-sexist
reading material. "William's Doll" was a
favorite with the children last spring.

The attitude being that it is just as im-
portant that boys learn to be good fathers
through play acting with dolls as it is for
girls to learn about motherhood.

continued on page 2

continued from page 1

GIRL SCOUTS OF AMERICA: This very tra-
ditional organization will begin counsel-
ing its leaders in “non-traditional” app-
roaches to sex roles this fall. Although
there are unfortunate aspects to this
organization, it might be worthwhile to
check into these counseling groups in the
fall. Call: 338-0721.

MPLS. PUBLIC SCHOOLS: Every parent must
investigate her or his child's school to
discover possible non-sexist recreational
activities. (It is the writer's opinion
that the schools are not completely sin-
cere in their stated commitment to affirm-
ative action and non-sexist education.)
Call Carol Freeman, 335-8841 for further
information.

"Lois Milbauer, pre-school instructor for
South Suburban, purchases most of her in-
structional material from the Emma Willard
Task Force on Equal Education and Learning
Book Store, endorsed by N.O.W.

"The University Branch YWCA was funded
last year to study the issue of sexism.
University of Minnesota students visited
the nursery school and played association
games with the children to determine what
areas sexist attitudes are strong and to
encourage non-sexism. The students would
mention a specific task, like ironing,
and ask the kids who can iron. If the
children indicated that this task was
specifically for moms, a discussion would
ensue.

"Non-sexist education is a relatively

new concept in YWCA programming but its
importance has been realized and we hope
to incorporate this type of training in
parent education classes as well as in
pre-school classes sometime this fall."

--Candy Medd
Director of Communications

Specific Y activities for pre-schoolers
include:

PLAYCARE, Ruth Hawkins Center, 5801
James Ave. North, Tuesday through Friday,
9 a.m. to 3 p.m., $1 per day includes
lunch, breakfast and a snack. This pro-
gram is subsidized by Welfare. Children all day, love, I have been breathing you
can be entered at any time throughout the like rare oxygen
year. Call 522-6559. from a dangerous cave.
this darkness makes me watchful;
NURSERY SCHOOL, Urban Center, Monday I live in it.
through Friday, mornings or afternoons, :
fall, winter and spring. The nursery above our heads,
school will begin September 16 in a temp- the sleek black birds
orary location, Trinity Lutheran Church. circle in a trance.
Children can enter at any time during the a story is born
term. Call 374-2765. in the curve of their wings.

PRE-SCHOOL, Suburban South Center, Tues- if the moon swells larger,
days and Thursdays, 1 to 3 p.m., ages 3 to surely it must burst.
5; fees vary. Call 881-2636. see, the birds are hypnotized
by the promise of its shadows,
Y-KIDS DAY CAMP, Suburban South Center, making love to empty white rings.
9:30 to 2:30 three days a week. LaCompte
Green Park. $25 for two weeks, does not it may be true
include lunch; children should bring a we know no better,
bag lunch. Scholarships are available in weaving old inconstancies
cases of financial need. Call North like this.
Center: 535-1713 or South Center 881-2636 lying here, afraid, a thin grief
for registration information. blows through my heart.

ethna mcKiernan

FLYING:

Flying, by Kate Millett, (Alfred A. Knopf,  
546 pages, hardcover, $8.95).

Reviewed by Susan W. Plaster

I applaud Kate Millett's just-released  
autobiographical work, Flying. During the  
days I was reading it, Flying took up most  
of my time and mindspace: I sat down to try  
to write in my own journal and all my sen-  
tences came out like Millett's. Flying is a  
powerful analysis of a person, a way of  
living, and a movement.

Flying is largely about Millett's life  
during the past few years, but much is told  
of her previous life including her St. Paul  
Catholic childhood. The format is that of  
undated journal entries. The chronological  
scrambling bothered me at first but really is  
appropriate because it is roughly comparable  
to the way most of us mentally inhabit  
several time zones at once. The book chron-  
icles a period of great growth in Millett's  
life, a return from a mental precipice on  
which she found herself a few years ago.

Flying becomes a book-within-a-book as  
Millett tells of the agonies undergone while  
writing it and of friends' reactions to parts  
she shared with them. How many authors are  
courageous to share with their readers their  
insecurities about their work? The book  
involved me deeply in its progress. Millett  
asks, "Can I finish this book? What if my  
friends are offended? Should I tell every-  
thing?" Midway through the book I was  
trapped, feeling myself more participant than  
reader.

Millett's writing about her family is  

particularly striking. Her use of verbatim  
accounts of conversations is especially  
effective in her talks with her mother.  
"What do you mean, bisexual," Mrs. Millett's  
voice asks over the phone, and as Kate jumps  
into the unknown and tries to explain, she is  
breaking that granite barrier of parent-child  
dishonesty about sexuality.

WORTH READING!

The word "radical" and how it might apply  

to Kate Millett. A dead horse by now, the  
word used to be defined as “one who analyzes  
and attempts to change the roots of a prob-  
lem." Radical has to do with roots and  
causes, not just symptoms. The word roots  
relates to Kate Millett's radicalism in that  
Flying tells much about her roots as a person.  
Instead of trying to totally deny parts of  

her past or separate herself from family  
members who are critical of her, Millett  
writes about her past and those people with  
an attitude of acceptance. She delineates  

in Flying the roots of her sexual and polit-  
ical beliefs. She doesn't omit embarrassing  
or unhip things she may have done: in a  
radical sense, she is honest about herself  
and her roots.

A crucial political confrontation de-  
scribed in the book is Millett's speech at  
Columbia when she is challenged by Teresa  
Juarez to say she is "lesbian," not  
"bisexual." Millett says:

The line goes, inflexible  
as a fascist edict, that  

bisexuality is a copout.

Yes, I said yes, I am a  

Lesbian.  
Reading these pages over I was shattered  
to realize that Millett succumbed to the  
pressure of a political line and ended up  
making a statement which didn't reflect her  
life truthfully. Flying portrays beauti-  
fully Millett's love alliances with women  
and with her husband Fumio. Bisexuality  
may not be politically "cool" but after  
reading Flying I don't think "lesbian" tells  
the whole truth about Kate Millett.

A major theme in Flying is the pressure  
Millett felt after skyrocketing to fame with  
the publication of her dissertation, Sexual  
Politics. She discusses the anxieties of  
being recognized by strangers, of being  
expected to speak for all feminists, of  
having the media titillated by her sex life.  
Millett is constantly getting into predica-  
ments because the women's movement's anti-  
leadership stance conflicts with the media's  
hunger for names and faces, and also because  
there are obvious times when a person wants  
and deserves credit for her work. Her  
decision to list herself as director of the  

film Three Lives is discussed in the light  
of that conflict.

Flying introduced me to the people of  
Kate Millett's life--her lovers, family,  
friends, and her critics. Millett's talks  
with Jill Johnston, a memorable tea with  
Doris Lessing, her remarks about Yoko Ono,  
provided me with insights into famous women  
through another famous woman's eyes. Con-  
versely, Millett's record of her stay in  
London with Paul and Nell was the sort of  
ordinary humdrum scrambled-eggs-for-dinner  
picture I enjoy getting of such a person.

continued on page 12

MAKE A PRETTY JACOB

BY

Jacob and his mother took an early morn-
ing stroll through an uninhabited part of
the island that was the family's summer re-
treat. His four-year-old curiosity prompted
a steady flow of questions about the new won-
ders entering his world. He skipped light-
ly, smiling, pointing, asking, listening.
Twice he asked apprehensively, "We don't
have to go back yet, do we?" His mother's
face tensed. She answered, "No, not yet.”

He stopped suddenly, let go of his moth-
er's hand, and stooped by a clump of wild
flowers. The sun shining on his face high-
lighted the baby down that made his skin
like creamy satin and his auburn curls lus-
trous and soft. His eyes sparkled and an
"O-o-o-h" rounded his dusky lips. He was
about to put a dimpled forefinger on a
large monarch butterfly when his mother gen-
tly cautioned him, “No, Jacob, don't touch
him. He has powder on his wings. If you
brush the powder off, he won't be able to
fly and he'll die. We don't want that, do
we?"

He whispered, "Oh, no. He's pretty."

Satiated, the monarch fluttered its wings
and disappeared. Jacob giggled. "Where's
he going, mother?"

All the way back to the cabin, Linda Ev-
erett answered Jacob's questions. But
when the cabin came into view, he became
silent. He pulled back to inspect some
weeds. He searched for something to say a-
bout the nondescript mass before him. At
length Linda took his hand in hers. "Come
on, Jacob. Aren't you hungry?"

Jacob didn't answer. He scratched at
his ear and submitted meekly to the end of
his glorious morning.

Bill Everett stood in the doorway stretch-
ing and yawning. "Hi, Tiger," he boomed to
Jacob, "about time you're getting back. I
thought you'd taken off on me." He tousled
Jacob's hair.

Jacob wore a tight smile. He scooted in-
side, scooped up his pull-toy duck, and
settled himself on a step stool in the
corner of the kitchen to inspect the mech-
anism that made the duck quack.

Linda started bacon frying and began
whipping eggs in a bowl. Bill flopped into
a chair. He thrummed his fingers on the
porcelain table top and stared out the win-
dow. He seemed to address himself to the
trees outside. “Thought we were all here to-
gether." Linda didn't answer. "A guy could
starve to death," he added.

Linda sighed and muttered, "Which of those
do you want me to defend first?"

Jacob stirred on his stool and worked the
duck's mouth up and down--rack-rack-rack!

"Stop that, Jacob!" The sharpness in his
mother's voice startled him. He hung his
head and poked absently at the duck's gar-
ish orange bill.

Bill threw a sharp look at Linda. "Do
you have to pick on the kid? Don't bitch
at him just because you're in a rotten mood!

CHARLOTTE MASTERMAN

Linda's jaws tightened. Through clenched
teeth she asked, "Is it all right for Jacob
and I to enjoy the early morning together?
Or," she bowed slightly in Bill's direction,
"should we sit in silent awe waiting for
his highness to arise? As for breakfast,"
she sent the eggs spluttering into hot
grease, "I assume you're not entirely ig-
norant about cooking. If you do have troubl-
e, there's a cookbook on the counter top."

Bill snarled, "That'll be the day!" He
grabbed yesterday's paper and snapped it
open, reading furiously.

Jacob looked furtively at both his par-
ents, then hunched over his toy. He hummed
softly to it.

They ate breakfast in silence. Jacob
spread his eggs over his plate so that it
would look as if he'd eaten most of them.

He slipped a piece of bacon into his jeans
pocket to be disposed of later. Quietly,
he slipped out the kitchen door to retreat
to his sandbox. He scooped a big mound of
wet sand together and patted it into a dome.
He tried to square it off, but his hands
would not obey his directions. Frustrated,
he hammered the sand into a soggy, shape-
less mass. The cool morning breeze carried
harsh voices from the cabin to the sand-
box. Jacob drooped his eyelids and ran a
listless finger through the sand.

Bill emerged from the cabin in swimming
trunks and yelled, "Hey, Tiger, how about a
swim?"

Jacob's eyes brightened. “Mommy too?"

"Nope. Just us men. I'll race you. Get your suit on and

Jacob wrinkled his nose and tugged at one
ear. He opened his mouth to speak. But
when he saw a familiar look on his father's
face that signaled both a little warning
about saying no and the vague, helpless
feeling about answering the question of Why
not?, he changed his mind and went to put
on his trunks.

Bill perched Jacob on his shoulders and
ran to the beach and into the water. Jacob
locked his arms tightly around Bill's neck
and let out gleeful shrieks as the cool
water drenched them both. Bill pulled Jacob
through the water by his hands, Jacob pro-
pelling his feet wildly and sputtering like
a motor. "Brrrrrmmmm--I'm a boat, Daddy,
I'm a boat!" he laughed.

Bill supported Jacob's tummy with his
large hand while Jacob's arms and legs
beat at the water. When Bill let go, Jacob
began to sink. Bill pulled him up quickly
and tickled him so he wouldn't cry. Bill's
laugh echoed off the lake mixed with Jac-
ob's light, tinkling giggle. He threw Jac-
ob high over his head and held out his arms
to catch him. Jacob caught his breath. His
mouth turned downward, a terrified ha ha
ha erupting as he descended and bounced into
Bill's arms. He clutched at Bill--"No,
Daddy, don't do that!"

continued on page 5

MAKE A PRETTY JACOB

NE ES OO OE CL ECE CEE tL CCT TE et inne a

an er rte nett

Bill nestled Jacob's head under his chin.  
"Okay, Tiger. Sorry," he said.

On the beach they covered themselves with  
sand. Bill closed his eyes and whispered,  
"This is nice." Jacob did the same, echoing  
"This is nice." He peeked at Bill periodically  
and closed his eyes again until Bill  
finally rose to leave. Jacob jumped up and  
slipped his hand into Bill's. He looked  
like Bill's miniature, his shoulders drooping  
a bit, his hips thrust slightly forward.  
They ambled lazily, in no hurry to return  
to the cabin.

That night Jacob's velvety fingers on  
Linda's arm awakened her. "Mommy, I'm  
hot."

She clasped his hand and ran her fingers  
over his cheek. "My God, you are hot!"  
she cried. "Come on, baby," she said and  
lifted him into her arms. She laid him on  
the bed next to Bill, who peered into the  
darkness and asked foggily, "What's wrong?"

Linda tried to control the edge on her  
voice. "He's probably burned to a crisp.  
You know he burns easily." She flicked on  
a small light, shot from the bedroom, and  
returned a moment later with a thermometer.  
It registered Jacob's temperature at 103°.

Jacob watched Linda through listless, red-  
rimmed eyes for a sign of his well-being.  
She bit her lower lip and pinched her brows  
tightly together as she laid cold cloths  
to his forehead and arms. She gave him  
cold water and aspirin that were hard to  
swallow. She carried him to his room and  
rocked him, cradling him snugly and hum-  
ming softly.

She felt Jacob's hot breath on her neck  
when he whispered, "Sing Jacob's song,  
Mommy."

Linda smiled, hugging him closer. Her  
voice intoned the words she'd given the  
song when Jacob was an infant. She'd used  
it often to lullaby him to sleep. Jacob  
smiled wistfully as she finished--"  
... Daddy's love and Mommy's love, make a  
pretty Jacob."

Linda laid him on his bed and drew a  
sheet over him, tucking it around his shoul-  
ders. She promised he'd feel much better  
by morning and returned to her room.

But Jacob floated in a burning abyss for  
three days. Whenever he surfaced he felt  
his bed enclosing his heated body and saw  
the ceiling recede and become small and  
distorted. Strange high sounds rang in  
his ears and mixed with voices. The voices  
drifted elusively, shouting fragments  
through filters that made them fuzzy and  
far away. They rose and fell, growing in  
intensity, sharpening their edges, cutting  
through the waves of mist that washed over  
Jacob's mind--A damned lie!--Is it? You  
used to--always bitching!--shut up! shut  
up! You'll disturb Jacob--look who's talk-  
ing--if you cared--then leave!--all right,  
I will!

A deafening roar drew a curtain of sil-  
ence over the voices. The abrasive heat  
that had tightened Jacob's skin over aching  
bones receded, leaving him suspended in a  
numb void.

When he emerged he peered into a wrink-  
led, kindly face. The stranger greeted  
Jacob with a smile. He placed a stethoscope  
on Jacob's chest and appeared to be sleep-  
ing. Then he looked at Jacob and moved his  
lips silently. He frowned slightly and  
moved his lips again. Jacob stared at  
the man hovering over him.

Linda's drawn face appeared on top of  
the man's shoulder. She said voiceless  
things he could not understand.

Jacob slid in and out of sleep while the  
sun made its slow journey behind drawn  
shades. The room was semi-dark when Bill's  
face appeared over him. He wore a look  
much like Linda's, and he, too, moved his  
mouth mutely. Jacob frowned and stared at  
his father.

Each day Jacob sat up in his bed for long-  
er periods. He watched silent gray and  
black figures move across the television  
screen, or lethargically moved wooden puz-  
zle pieces into their slots. He turned  
pages of colorful characters with meaning-  
less black letters next to them. He watched  
his parents' faces for some explanation,  

but could only read confusion and pain.

Had he done something wrong? He watched  
them watching him, and wondered what he  
should do, for their anxious, expectant  
faces told him that he had not done some-  
thing they expected from him. He watched  
them watch each other, their lips moving  
inaudibly, their faces etched with looks  
Jacob attached to the voices he vaguely  
remembered.

Linda began taking him outside on warm  
days. Sometimes she would push him on his  
swing. Sometimes he built awkward squares  
in the sand. And sometimes he dragged his  

linger through flattened sand, tracing two  

tall stick figures with their oversized  
circle-hands stuck to the smaller ones of  
the short figure between them.

One day Linda found him by a clump of  
wild flowers. She knelt down in front of  
him, about to reach out to touch his arm.  
She drew back, stifling a cry with her hand.  
Jacob's fingers methodically tore at the  
legs, the feelers, the wings, of a large  
monarch. His expressionless face rippled  
before Linda's eyes as she heard his mono-  
tone words, the first he'd uttered since his  
illness--"… Daddy's love and Mommy's  
love, make a pretty Jacob."

Copyright 1974

what’s 9  
happening  

Excerpts from The Spokeswoman, July 15, 1974*  

JUNGLE ROT EXPOSED!  

New AT&T Agreement Gives $30-million to  
Women and Minorities. 25,000 managerial  
employees (most of them women) will share  

an estimated $30-million in back pay and fu-  
ture salary adjustments under a new agree-  
ment between AT&T, the Equal Employment  
Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and the U.S.  
Department of Labor and Justice. The agree-  
ment, which was entered as a consent decree  
in U.S. District Court May 30, is the second  
multi-million dollar settlement of discrimi-  
nation charges against the nation's largest  
private employer in a little more than a  
year. The earlier decree, which covered  
non-management employees, was entered in  
January, 1973.  

KKK  

The 10-year-old Federal Equal Pay Act was  
upheld in its first test before the U.S.  
Supreme Court. In a 5-3 decision, the high  
Court ruled that Corning Glass Works viola-  
ted the Act by paying male inspectors on the  
night shift more than women doing the same  
work in the daytime... The decision is  
expected to cost the Corning Glass Works at  
least $600,000 in back pay for women workers  
at three plants.  

KKK  

Rutgers Will Pay For Discrimination. 210  
women and minority faculty members at Rut-  
gers University will share $375,000 in back  
pay and salary adjustments in the largest  
‘compensatory settlement ever made by any  
university in the nation. The salary in-  
creases will put 186 women and 24 minority  
men on a par with their white male colleag-  
ues—in some cases retroactively to 1969.  

KKK  

Employment Briefs. The Iowa-Illinois Gas  

and Electric Company faces a charge by the  
U.S. Department of Labor that the utility is  
in violation of the Federal Equal Pay Act  
for paying women less than men doing sub-  
stantially the same work... Eastex, Inc.  
will give 137 women and minority employees  
$257,000 in back pay under a consent decree  
obtained by the Labor Department in resolu-  
tion of a suit charging Eastex with discri-  
mination in hiring, transfers and promotions.  
An additional $67,200 will also be paid in  
bonuses to 56 women transferring to other  
jobs... According to a recent report by  
the Washington, D.C. Commission on the  
Status of Women, the number of women in top  
D.C. government jobs decreased sharply between  
1968 and 1972 and even more markedly in some  
very high grades since then. The report  
showed that women holding positions in the  
GS 16-18 range fell from 14% of the work  
force in 1968 to 8.3% in 1972. Current sta-  
tistics show no women holding GS 17 or 18  
jobs in the city government... The New  
York State Division of Human Rights has  
found “probable cause" in its investigation  

of a complaint filed by the Suffolk chapter  
of the National Organization for Women  

(NOW) charging sex discrimination in em-  
ployment by the Suffolk County Police De-  
partment. The complaint was filed on behalf  
of all women applicants and officers.  

(NOTE: A booklet entitled "Equal Pay" is  
available free from the U.S. Department of  
Labor, Wage and Hours Division, Washington,  
D.C. 20210. Ask for WH Publication 1320  
Rev. July, 1973. The booklet includes in-  
formation about the Equal Pay Act, its en-  
forcement, the economic role of women, and  
court cases. Also, WHOM TO CONTACT IF YOU  
HAVE A COMPLAINT that you think fits into  
one of the categories such as those above.  
Don't be discouraged—you would contact the  
Wage and Hours Division of the Dept. of La-  
bor, not the Human Rights Commission!)  

MORE JUNGLE ROT.  

If you're concerned about our younguns and  
their continuing daily bath in educational  

sexism, read the following—and WRITE.  

HEW Finally Issues Title IX Regulations. The  
Department of Health, Education and Welfare  
has finally published proposed regulations  
for interpretation and enforcement of Title  
IX of the Education Act Amendments of 1972.  
The regulations are designed to particularize  
the general anti-sex discrimination stipula-  
tion of Title IX which says that "No person  
in the United States shall, on the basis of  
sex, be excluded from participation in, be  
denied the benefits of, or be subjected to  
discrimination under any education program  
or activity receiving Federal financial as-  
sistance."  

Generally, the regulations call for equal  
access and participation by both sexes in  
course offerings, extracurricular activi-  
ties and provision and use of facilities.  

In athletics, which has been a hotly de-  
bated area of the regulations, the proposed  
guidelines fall far short of requiring equal  
expenditure for teams and instruction for  
both men and women. The regulations state  
that "equal aggregate expenditures are not  
required." Requirements for equal travel  
and per-diem allowances which appeared in  
earlier versions of the regulations have  
been dropped and the status of athletic  
scholarship requirements remains unclear.  

Ann Scott, legislative vice president of  

the National Organization for Women (NOW)  
commented that HEW's approach "will encour-  
age segregation of athletic teams." Dis-  
couraging integration of teams, Ms. Scott  
continued, "is tantamount to passing pro-  
tective legislation—girls will go on think-  
ing they're inferior to boys and schools  
will continue to treat them that way."  

HEW has also excluded sexism and sex-stereo-  
typing in textbooks and curriculum from  
their regulations on the grounds that their  
inclusion "would raise grave constitutional  
questions under the First Amendment."  

Public hearings on the regulations will be  
held in twelve cities during the next six  
weeks; in addition, written comments can be  
submitted to the Secretary of Health, Educa-  
tion and Welfare until October 15, after  
which final guidelines will be issued. The  
Spokeswoman urges women to write to Secre-  
tary Weinberger and comment. Complete  
copies of the regulations can be obtained  
from the Office of Civil Rights, Dept. of  
Health, Education and Welfare, Washington,  

BE. continued on page 10

Te Our Sisters —

Girls Are Equal Too: The Women's Movement
for Teenagers, by Dale Carlson (Atheneum,
146 pages, hardcover, $6.25).

“A liberated woman is a woman who thinks
of herself as a human being; who thinks of
herself as an individual with her own inter-
ests and abilities . . . Above all, a liber-
ated woman is a woman who believes she has
the same right to choose what she will do
with her life as a man does and to take the
same responsibility for her life as a man
does."

Only love for our younger sisters could
have motivated Dale Carlson's book--her wish
for them to have real rather than supposed
choices. Carlson takes us from childhood
through college/altar/job (or all three),
exposing in rapid-fire succession sex-role
stereotyping with its damage to female self
image. As she shows how we are systematical-
ly categorized for no other reason than that
we are female, she builds our confidence in
ourselves as human beings, challenging us to
claim for ourselves all the rights and
choices open to males. For self-hatred is
perhaps the biggest struggle women face in
their struggle for a full existence.

While Carlson's book is addressed to teen-
agers, it is an excellent "crash course" for
anyone of any age. I know of no other femi-
nist book that concentrates so much into so
little space, and yet is comprehensive with-
out being at all patronizing or simplistic.
While some of the young women in my seventh
grade classes found other feminist books
hard to understand because of references,
allusions, or vocabulary unfamiliar to them,
they found Carlson's book easy to relate to.
And they loved it:

Carlson places myth next to fact as she
traces sex-role stereotyping that casts
women into roles of stupid, inferior, ador-
able, passive, dependent "little girls."
(Even at eighty you're still one of the
"girls!") If it weren't for Carlson's wry
humor, her quick pace, and her challenge to
intellect, we might be tempted to toss the
book aside, for the truth of her statements
is painful to face.

By junior high school we are aware that
"boys don't want any competition from you.
All you have to be from here on in is sexy
enough to catch one of them. Never mind the
books now, the good marks, the basketball
practice. Concentrate on makeup, miniskirts,
and man-catching facial expressions." (Ever
observe the girls' lavatory between classes?)
Education plays a heavy hand in the pattern-
ing process--girls are automatically placed
in home ec, boys in shop; the schools "just
seem to assume that all boys have more talent
for electronics, mechanical drawing, machine
parts (not true; girls' aptitudes have been
tested and are just as good as boys'); and
that all girls are just fascinated with
chocolate pudding, needlepoint, and diaper-
ing doll bottoms (false!)." Boys are encour-
aged from toddlers to explore; their world
expands and widens. But girls are increas-
ingly protected until their only "proper"
role is that of somebody's wife and mother--
all their satisfactions supposedly come
through others, while boys discover and
create their own.

Carlson tells why women acquiesce to this
programming: "Girls .. . learn to value
themselves only if other people love and
value them. In the beginning a little girl
looks to her parents for approval and love,
then she looks to her teachers; eventually,
as she grows up, she transfers her need for
approval to boys. Most girls never learn to
look to themselves, to rely on their own
achievements to make them feel important.
So girls go on playing up to boys because
they can't afford to lose their only source
of love. They have so little self-love to
go on."

In Part One several remarkably condensed
chapters deal with discrimination in college
and employment, women's media image, mar-
riage, divorce, child care, abortion, hous-
ing, credit, women and the arts, legal
rights, the beauty game (and who profits
from it--cosmetics, fashion houses, etc.),
"neurosis" redefined, and the myth of house-
work as total fulfillment. Carlson does not
deliver a philippic against men and marriage
but treats sexism on a cultural rather than
a personal basis. But given our condition-
ing, honest, open relationships are all but
impossible. She stresses full human growth
and independence as a prerequisite for
healthy, realistic love to survive.

Part Two gets at the origins of sexism,
its worldwide perpetuation by law, religion,
and custom; women's (lack of) education,
their physical abuse, selling of women for
marriage or slavery, and popular myths that
persist to this day. The section on the
early feminist movement thrills us with
"Ain't I a Woman?" and the Seneca Falls
Declaration. Carlson covers the fifty
years' silence, the depressing fifties
(Back to the Cave!), and the civil rights
movement of the sixties that led, much like
the fight for abolition, to women's renewed
fight for their rights. Included is a list
ing of a few women's rights organizations
that have emerged from the new feminism.

A Tale of Diaper Pails and Broken  
Balloons  
She could remember when days  
hung like a thousand red balloons  

ready to burst forth with hope,  

but now the years of mazeway stumbling  

through diaper pail drudgery  

have taken their toll.  

With vapid overconcern  
she tries to talk with  

a clerk who declines.  

As the woman turns grey  
hairs at the temple  
look like tiny scars  
from the days of too  

many diaper pails.  

by Cheryl Trulen  

(for Linda)  

She turns her torn roots up  
& trusts them to the sun  
With assurance kindled by  
that fire, & hot salt water  
they are revived  

Gold tears on a tremble ride  

in rivers to her neck  

Fallow tears spill down the ache,  
she gives them to the sky  

For people are in constant  

flux & earth a wobbling whore:  
Only the lunar flame survives.  

by P. Masterman  

by Sarah Robins  

I see you, my sisters,  
standing accused, forever convict  
in a death house self designed.  
Be no docile thing  
struggling to recover  
the innocence of lost years.  
You are  
the emancipated daughters  
of mother earth.  
The blooms of spring  
long buried by winter's lurid wish  
are restored to new awareness.  

And you shall stand naked, a dance.

No Sale at the Check Out Counter

by Cheryl Trulen

The denial Tale  
The bar fogged by smoke and shaded by  
Tiffany lamps acts as the check out  
counter for copulation. On one side  
of the foam rubber bar sit the cats---  
older ones in prim grey suits while  
the younger sport bells. Their blood-  
shot eyes eagerly survey the vulnerable  

prey---eyeing especially the frontal  
projections.  

On the other side of the screwdriver the  
chicks  

lay. Chicks feel the sting of meat stare.  
Bodies exposed before the vibes of mind had  
time to dance. Horny cat braver than the  
rest makes contact with one chick. He rubs  
his coarse suit against her bare arm while  

whispering gin tinged nothings in her ear.  

She repulses him with ice---MIND BEFORE  
FLESH  

PLEASE! The cat leaves dragging his limp  
tail  

REQUIEM  

behind him. The chick's dignity is raised  

I live on a border.  

After a day at work in one country  

speaking a strange language  

behaving in an alien culture  

if a movie on my own time is more of  
the same  

if a bar or music is more of the same  

if the streets and the people in them  

are more of the same  

I eat alone in my room  

and try to clean up what the day has  
done to me.  

beyond her frontal projections.  

Copulation, for now, not a check out counter  

Sometimes I am forced  

to shut down everything around me  

the weather, the neighbors, the shades,  

the nerve endings, the heart, the  
others,  

until I've eaten the warmed over death.  

I shut down everything in my country  

and sometimes I don't come out for  
years  

and sometimes I don't come out at all  

and sometimes I come out vomiting all  
over  

myself--to be sure--  

but I live in such a small country  

that puke which turns everything into  
itself  

spills inevitably past the border  

and They choke on it,  

but I don't  

because mourning sickness  

is a staple in my country.  

—_—  

from "Because Mourning Sickness is a  
Staple in My Country" published by  
Ain't I a Woman?

In Part Three, Carlson discusses ways to  
achieve liberation, stressing that it re-  
quires both public and private assertiveness.  
She takes us through a quick re-examination  
of our lives, in search for an awareness of  
the sexist traps that keep us "in our place."  
She encourages women to come out of isola-  
tion from one another (sisterhood is power-  
ful!), giving resources for beginning rap  
groups, advice for fighting job discrimina-  
tion, and so on. Five "sample" marriages  
offer insights into varying degrees of sex-  
role indoctrination and their consequences.  
She puts responsibility for fulfillment  
where it belongs—with each woman, rather  
than through a male intermediary. An anno-  
tated bibliography of suggested readings  
reveals Carlson's sources, and they are ex-  
cellent. She is well read—lurking in the  
pages of her book are some of the finest  
feminists and a good deal of research.  

Carlson never tries to soften the truth of  
women's status. Without a trace of Polly-  
anna, she insists upon a re-evaluation of  
our self-worth and dares us to stand up and  
fight for our right to be full-fledged, in-  
dependent, complete human beings. Her anger  
and ours is channeled into positive attempts  
to take hold of our lives.  

". . . what we are learning, all the gen-  
erations together, is that it is wonderful  
to be a woman, a strong, independent, able  
woman who is free to stretch and stretch and  
stretch until she can admire herself because  
of her own efforts rather than seek admira-  
tion in the eyes of a boy or a man.  

"Never mind the jeers of those who are  
quick to remind us of what we have not yet  
done. Who knows what women will accomplish  
when they have learned finally to be free?  
Who knows what the intelligence of women  
will contribute to the world now that the  
search of women has finally begun?"  

I think that Carlson's book is a basic  
primer for those new to the notion of  
women's liberation, and that, when finished  
with her book, her readers will hunger for  
those books and essays that treat each of  
her many topics in greater detail. (In  
reference to her remark about what women  
will accomplish—I strongly recommend The  
First Sex, by Elizabeth Gould Davis, which  
shows what women have already done. There  
has simply been a few thousand years' lapse  
since the time when men usurped power from  
the matriarchs and took credit for the great  
civilizations women had built! And ever  
since that time women's accomplishments have  
been hidden, ridiculed, or stopped in their  
tracks because of her entrapment into her  
limited sphere.)  

Copyright 1974  

(Crtar Mlasliinen)  

WANTED:  
WOMEN ARTISTS  

Feminist Formations has added another ser-  
vice for women—a cooperative of women  
artists. They contacted a few of us, who  
contacted others, and slowly the coop  
started taking shape. But we need more  
people if it's going to work.  

We'd like you to join in expanding the co-  
op while it is still in its infancy. We  
think it would offer several advantages.  

We will share expenses of entrance fees in  
art fairs as well as a central location at  
which to display our work between shows and  
fairs. If several people share a booth the  
fee gets sliced several ways. And the  
booths cost less, too.  

We will share the work as well—making,  
setting up, and running the booths, taking  
turns so that no one will have to be there  
two or three full days and evenings at a  
stretch. Thus we save lots of energy.  
Another advantage is getting our work pub-  
licized, not easy when you work alone.  

But we need more artists! We need all  
kinds of art—pottery, painting, drawing,  
sculpture, jewelry, ceramics, macramé,  
weaving, crochet, and so on.  

FIRST ART FAIR—August 15-17.  

We already have an art fair lined up, the  
Southview Square Art Fair in West Saint  
Paul on August 15-17. If you're interested  
in showing your work with us, call Kathy  
Sarafolean at Feminist Formations (tel. no.  
721-5546).  

Since Feminist Formations is the center  
for the cooperative, and will therefore  
inherit a certain amount of mail handling,  
paperwork, phone calling, etc., in setting  
up art fairs, meetings, and so on, we feel  
that they should receive a percentage of  
profits. How much is a decision that the  
coop should make together.  

Those people who participate in the coming  
art fair, as well as those who call in to  

show an interest in the coop will be noti-  
fied of the next meeting date.  

What's Happening  
continued from page 6  

BATTER UP (NOT PANCAKES!!)  

National Little League Baseball, Inc., has  
yielded to public pressure calling for an  
end to the group's "boys only" rule...  

the New Jersey courts had already ruled that  
girls could not be barred from Little League  
teams and suits to end sex discrimination by  
the organization had been filed in more than  
a dozen other cities following protests and  
demonstrations by children, parents, and  
women's organizations across the country.  

*The Spokeswoman, a monthly newsletter,  

is available for $7 per year ($12 for insti-  
tutions). Address is 5464 South Shore Drive  
Chicago, Illinois 60615.  

= = We

Another Divine Comedy?

Recently, I spotted a lit-
tle gem on the newsstand.
This "Mother of Pearl" was
entitled HOW TO PICK UP
GIRLS. With curious fingers
I turned the pages of this
slim volume by Eric Weber.
What I read would put Plato
to shame. A deeper or more
insightful philosophy has not
been advocated in modern
times. I felt that I had
glimpsed a bit of the eternal
In reading this volume I
truly transcended myself.

My "ethereal" education
began with the first chapter.
It was in the first chapter
that I discovered the real
wisdom of Sage Weber's "hum-
anistic" philosophy. Accor-
ding to the "intellectual"
Weber, ladies are just wait-
ing to be picked up and laid
down. That lovely lass at
the bus stop is not waiting

for a bus. She is waiting
for you, silly boy. Even if
you are ugly and have halito-
sis, she wants you. Her big,
soft boobs whisper little in-

vitations. Her high rise fan-

ny beckons. Her waiting for
the bus is all a sham. Women
have nothing important to do.
They are really waiting for
you.

On this principle alone,
dear Mr. Weber deserves a
Pulitzer Prize. However, his
"divine" insight does not end
with this one abiding princi-
ple. He has other nuggets of
wisdom. His insight at times
is almost overwhelming. He
truly shows to what extent a
human soul can soar.

His second "divine" prin-
ciple gives one pudding for
thought. Talk dirty to wom-
en, says the "guiding light."
The cruder your language the
more likely you are to score.

Tell the next little lady that
you meet that you like her
box. She might let you put
something in it. Tell anoth-
er babe that you like her
snow-capped mountains. Per-
haps, she'll let you do some
mountain climbing. Such in-
sightful advice for former
boy scouts! From Hades does
such wisdom come.

If you are starry-eyed by
such profound insight hold
on to your posterior. Mr.
Weber's next principle is
nothing less than earth shat-
tering. It would take an
Einstein to grasp its full
impact. We mortals can only
hope to get a tiny pin prick
of light. Surely, such gen-
ius is out of our reach!

The third principle takes
us to another dimension. The
sage tells his "boys" about
the “importance of being un-
earnest." A little lie often
leads the lass to the lair.
Pretend you are interested in
more than her boobs. "Girls
spend about twenty-three
hours a day primping," says
the astute author. So comp-
liment her efforts even if
it's bull. Yes, by all means
lie to her. She will not see
through the deception. Lad-
ies are myopia prone when it
comes to seeing through sham
and pretense. Even if they
can see through it women app-
reciate deception. Remember
old Eve telling Adam that the
apple was good for him?

Ah, so here we have the
"sacred" principles laid
down in "laymen's" language.

Earnest Eric does not stop
here, however. He also tells
his disciples what to say.
The language that he advo-
cates is simple. After all,
the disciples are speaking to

simple creatures. Wise Weber
believes one to three word
phrases are the safest.

"Hi" is the most appropri-
ate word. The broad will re-
spond with "goodbye." If she
does, you are one step closer
to beddy-bye. "What's your
name?" is a catchy phrase.
The chick might answer, “I'm
Gina Coreleone. My father
will make you an offer that
you can't refuse." This is
an obvious come on. Boy, you
are almost there. "You're a
Pisces, aren't you?" is more
than clever. She could pos-
sibly answer, "No, I'm a Com-
munist." You are there!
Communist sounds like commune
and everybody knows what com-
munes are like. "I love you"
is the greatest phrase of all.
The girl will answer, "Doesn't
everybody?" Now you
know that she has been around.
Perhaps she can teach you a
trick or two.

So woeful Weber is not
only equipped with wisdom,
but also with common sense.
He can tell kings of more
kingly values. He can tell
the peasant in the street
how to tell it like it isn't.
The man is a prophet. His
penetrating counsel stands
for all ages. He is the
"guiding light" of the fu-
ture. It is important that
his work be preserved.

What is the best way to
handle this preservation?
First, drop it near a fire
hydrant where it may be per-
fumed by capricious canines.
Second, put it in the oven
so that it may be more than
"half baked." Finally, "lay"
it to rest under a sweet
smelling patch of cow dung.
Now this wondrous work is
preserved for all "laymen" to

continued from page 3

Flying exposes Kate Millett's weaknesses
and it reveals her humanness, but
for me it also explains why she did become

so important to the movement. She is a
person with emotional, artistic, and politi-
cal courage, a woman with an almost mystical
ability to draw forth good from others.

Millett's book may be, as Fumio says
within it, "romantic," it certainly is
overly long, but I encourage you to buy it
with a friend, read it and then talk about
it. The book is a wonderful sharing of a
woman's life and for us to extend that
sharing further is a way of fulfilling
Millett's "mission" as feminist and artist.

Riek KK KK KKKkKkE
PEOPLE'S FOOD SYSTEM *
* Pa

SAP FOODS, 1435 N. Cleveland,
St. Paul, 646-9173

SELBY COOP, 516 Selby Ave.,
St. Paul, 277-1453

BEANERY, 3008 Lynlake So.,
824-5161

MILL CITY, 2550 Bloomington,
721-2072

POWDERHORN, 3440 Bloomington,
724-7681

NORTH COUNTRY, 2215 Riverside,
338-3110

SEWARD COOP, 2201 Franklin,
331-8870

WHOLE FOODS, 2502 1st Ave. So,
824-3474

GOOD GRITS, 15th & Spruce,
339-5924

PEOPLE'S BAKERY, 1535 E. Lake,
721-7205

PEOPLE'S WAREHOUSE, 205 11th
Ave. So. 341-3838

Southeast Community
Store, 1023 - 8th St. SE,
331-8770.

Mtkkkkkkkkkkk

FEMINIST INSTITUTE
TO OPEN IN

A group of leading women
1975 writers, teachers and activists

has announced plans for a

feminist institute in Burlington,
Vermont. According to spokeswoman Joan Peters, the
institute, which will be named Sagaris after the double-
edged sword of the ancient Amazons, is meant to be
a feminist-humanist alternative to existing patriarchal
society schools of higher education. Dr. Peters said
that the institute would offer a greater degree of academ-
ic freedom than is found currently at colleges and univer-
sities offering women’s studies. “In many schools,” she
asserted, “women’s studies are controlled by men or
locked into a system that does not allow adequate free-
dom for maximum intellectual growth.” Courses at
the institute, which will begin with two five-week summer
sessions next year, will include political theory, women's
history, psychology, creative writing and journalism —
all taught from a feminist perspective. Tuition will be
arranged according to a sliding scale based on ability to
pay and will include child care.

}

Gna HEA

SELF-HELP

COUNSELING

& EDUCATION INFORMATION
HEALTH FACTION

PATIENT ADVOCACY

office hours M-F 10-5
Peoples Center 200¢ S. 6th St.
3355-769

FEMINIST
FORMATIONS

a freelance agency
for feminists and friends

We have been consistently attempting to reach

you on behalf of our organization. We want to
work with affirmative action programs and to
initiate more companies to affirmative plans
which would result in utilization of all peo-
ple potential available. We want to change
the deceit and bribery; the mental torment and
the legal prostitution that goes on in the kit-
chens and offices of middle-upper-and-lower
America. We want Pennsylvania Avenue to chime
of honesty, not degradation. Our goals are
rooted in the philosophy that working people
everywhere are entitled to jobs and careers

that, however humble, may still earn at least

a living wage. We want the living standards

of women to be raised to the living standards

of men.
--Lynn McGuigan ___

FEMINIST F

Now Supplying & Contracting

Temporary Work Assignments
721-5546

```
13

| BOYS!! IF YOU'RE BETWEEN
18 AND 35, DIG THIS! (Don’t Let

THE WOMEN KEEP THEIR MONOPOLY ON THIS
JOB MARKET)

Yes, I went to
college.

But Speedwriting
got me my job.

Having a college degree doesn’t automatically mean a boy

can step right into the job of his dreams. :
To open the right doors, often what’s needed is a business COLORADO'S
skill your prospective boss can use. Like shorthand. _ MONTHLY
But ordinary symbol shorthand takes a lot of time to learn. WOMEN'S JOURNAL
And even if you didn’t spend years in college, who wants to |
waste months and months grinding away with strange signs and NEWS—covering feminist activities
squiggles? in the West.
: Speedwriting Shorthand is something else. It’s based on sim- THEOR Y—developing the ideas
ple, everyday ABCs. Those familiar ABCs and ideals of a new feminist
SCHOOL OF SPEEDWRITING you’ve known and loved since the first grade. consciousness $
Dept. 3607-4, |" That’s the whole reason why you can INTERVIEWS—focusing on local
55 West 42nd Street, New York, New York 10036 I master Speedwriting Shorthand so easily. feminists.
And so fast. More than a million girls already POETRY—exploring a female art
Please send me, free, a sample Speedwriting lesson and full | have, many in as little as six weeks. form...
information. I am most interested in: 1 You, too, can learn Speedwriting Short- ah ng and
i i | hand fast. And take dictation at 120 w.p.m., defending our bodies.
2 aerraped oan Sao | which is 50% faster than most firms require.
CD If under 17, check here for booklet “A” | . Then just imagine the welcome smiles
| you’ll get from personnel managers. And the Individual Subs $5.00
; | doors that swing open in exciting fields like eer
ons — | television, advertising, fashion, publishing. nee autions BS
I es ae) Q Institutions 3.00

a ee

ee EGS AREN'T
te ae MUCH -BuT THINK
FOLD IN HALF ALONG THIS LINE OF THE FRINGE
FIRST

CLASS BENEFITS! your own

BUSINESS REPLY MAIL Permit No. 6341

No postage stamp necessary New York, N.Y.
if mailed in the United States

Sample or back copy 40
BULK RATES AVAILABLE

1724 GAYLORD ST.

DENVER, CO. 80206

TYPEWRITER, FILE CABINET,

a i A 2 Rl RR A ORR SE

POSTAGE WILL BE PAID BY
; AND THE PRESTIGE OF

Speedwriting ——— _ RUNNING YOUR

55 West 42nd Street

New York, New York 10036 BUSINESS!!
```

14

AND THAT’S THE WAY

WOMAN’S TV IMAGE

The Sacramento Branch of

the American Association of
University Women recently
published a survey, "The Im-
age of Women in Television."

Results of the month-long study
of television news programs
and commercials show that
television news generally
projects two stereotyped im-
ages of women: helpless vic-
tims of kidnaps, rapes, mur-
ders and natural disasters...
or as opinionless, supportive
wives and mothers.

Other findings reveal:

Even more serious than
stereotyping is the virtual
omission of women from tele-
vision news. Out of 5,353
straight news stories moni-
tored on 221.5 hours of pro-
gramming, less than 10% (532)
were about women. Among
1,668 news features, only 273
dealt with women.

One monitor commented, "Af-
ter watching television news
for awhile, you get the feel-
ing that women just don't ex-
ist."

Television commercials
exhibit far more offensive
sexist bias than news
programs. With few excep-

tions, women were stereotyped

CORE

&

name
address
city / state

zip

RRR RNR Ky

| PEOPLE'S

1834 EAST LAKE

TO GOLDFLOWER

GOLD FLOWER
P.O. BOX 8341
LAKE STREET STATION
MPLS MN 55408

as half-witted consumers, in-
terested only in cooking,
cleaning, washing and serv-
ing men and children...or as
self-centered sex objects
eager to please men by us-
ing sprays, bath oils, hair
tints, hosiery, cosmetics,
creams and powders.

The survey involved 51 mon-
itors, all Sacramento AAUW
members, who were assigned
to every news program, every
day, on the three Sacramen-
to stations with network
affiliations.

At least one monitor was
at work by 5:55 a.m., watch-
ing Channel 13's "Morning
Headlines." Others were
assigned programs throughout
the day and evening, until
the night-owl watch on
11 p.m. and midnight news
summaries.

The monitors recorded their
findings on standardized
forms, using committee de-
fined criteria for what con-
stituted sexist bias. They
made notes on their conclu-
sions, filled out sheets for
every program monitored, and
then sent their results to
a committee which compiled
totals and wrote a final re-
port.

NATURAL FOODS
BREAD

"Gold Flower"
Char Masterman, Peggy Masterman, Sue

Shirley Heyer, Jan Jirak, Mary
Hastings, Cheryl Trulen, Jeannette Sul-
livan, Carol Masterman.

The next "Gold Flower" meeting will be
at 10 a.m., Sunday (note morning) August
11, at the Embers Restaurant at Hennepin
Avenue and W. 26th St.
coffee and rolls gathering and discuss con-
tent of the next issue.
interested in writing,
photography, layout, paste-up or feminist pub-
lication in general,
restaurant at 10 a.m.
us because we'll be a fairly large group
of women.

We had three goals in mind,"

said Betty Wisham, chair-
woman for the AAUW media
study topic which guided the
survey.

"First, we wanted to make
our members more aware of
television's impact on the
image of women. Second, we
plan to present any findings
of bias to the local sta-
tions, their networks and to
the Federal Communications
Commission which licenses
all stations.

"And finally, we hope to
lay the groundwork for sim-
ilar studies in other cities
by publishing the study.

We believe that the image of
women as projected in tel-
evision bears little rela-
tionship to the realities of
women in today's world. We
feel this can and must be
changed."

Copies of "The Image of
Women in Television" are
available through Carolyn
Flatt, 27 Greenway Circle,
Sacramento, CA 95831
for $1 or $2.50
including mailing.

staff for this issue:

We will hold a

Any new people
art work, photog-

should come to the
You'll recognize

POSITIONS OPEN  
CITY OF MINNETONKA  

CLERICAL  

Full time clerical positions. Salary range  
from $487 to $721 depending on experience  
and qualifications. Part time help also  
considered. Excellent working conditions.  

EQUIPMENT OPERATOR  

Full-time position, Operations and Main-  

tenance Department of the City of Minne-  

tonka. Experience in tree trimming re-  

quired. Other duties include truck driving,  
light equipment operations and general  
laborer work. Annual salary $11,000 -  
$12,000. Excellent fringe benefits.  

WATER AND SEWER OPERATOR  

Full-time, Operations and Maintenance  
Department, the City of Minnetonka. Ex-  
perience as water and sewer operator re-  
quired or education in same field. Dut-  
ies include operations and maintenance of  
city water and waste water system. Ann-  
ual salary $11,000 - $12,000. Excellent  
fringe benefits.  

AN AFFIRMATIVE ACTION EMPLOYER  

DIVORCE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION  

Call personnel office, City of  
Minnetonka, 933-2511.  

YOU DON'T HAVE TO GO TO CALIFORNIA TO  
LEARN HOW TO DO YOUR OWN DIVORCE.  

Right here in Minnesota, over 400  
people last year divorced themselves  
without the use of lawyers and saved  
themselves over $150,000.  

If your marriage is dead and you're  
about to get a divorce, call on us and  
learn how to bury your dead marriage as  
quietly as possible. You owe it to  
your children and yourself to get back  
to the business of living as quickly as  
possible, by either saving your mar-  
riage or separating peaceably.  

DIVORCE EDUCATION ASSOCIATION  

CALL 926-4003--24 hours  
A non-profit association, not a busi-  

ADVERTISING IN  

GOLDFLOWER  

COSTS $1.50 PER COLUMN INCH  
inexpensive, high quality  
Foliage plants and  
200 003 Lynoale Ave. So.  
1580

809SS NW SIDW

NOLLWLS L33SHLS 3yVT  
twEB XOEG Od  
¥3SMO14 C109  

on the cover...

A Minneapolis child indulges in a timeless summer pastime.  
See inside for a listing of other non-sexist activities  
for children in the Twin Cities.

"Gold Flower: A Twin Cities Newspaper for Women." Gold Flower,  
Aug. 1974. Archives of Sexuality and Gender, link.gale.com/apps  
/doc/SAFXWT878004820/AHSI?u=clemsonu_main  
&sid=bookmark-AHSI. Accessed 21 Oct. 2025.